Singer Zandi Khumalo has responded to recent reports, which claimed Senzo Meyiwa was allegedly shot while trying to intervene in a fight between herself and ex-boyfriend Longwe Twala. Senzo was shot at Kelly Khumalo and Zandi's mother's home in Vosloorus in 2014 in an alleged botched robbery. However, five years later, no-one has been brought to book. Kelly, Zandi, Senzo and Longwe were apparently among several people in the house at the time of the shooting. The case was thrown back into the spotlight after Sunday Independent reported that Senzo was allegedly “mistakenly shot” while trying to intervene in a fight between Zandi and Longwe, and that the botched robbery was apparently part of a cover-up story. Zandi denied the claims made in a lengthy social media statement on Tuesday evening. “On the allegations that he was shot while trying to intervene in a fight between me and my then boyfriend Longwe Twala. I categorically deny that. “I don't write this because I feel I owe those who have crucified us any answers. I wrote this because I feel that my name can't be continued to be dragged through the mud and I keep quiet like I have something to hide.” Zandi said it was sad that she and her sister, Kelly, had to defend themselves from those “hell-bent on the theory that we are guilty”. “I wonder if Senzo's family and the society that says we are guilty really want justice to prevail or they just want to see the Khumalos arrested,” she added. The star said she had given statements to police and undergone a lie-detector test. Zandi added that if police had evidence to prove her guilty, they should arrest her. She also slammed Senzo's family for the way they had allegedly treated her family and said she “owes them nothing”. “They must never feel entitled to anything else in my life. I understand and feel the pain they are going through but that does not give them the right to abuse us, their anger and abuse is misdirected and this sense of over entitlement they have developed towards my family needs to stop.” Zandi's statement comes hot on the heels of an interview Kelly had on eNCA on Tuesday. “I have spoken about the Senzo Meyiwa issue so many times, but people have decided they want me guilty. They have decided, so why defend myself? They must believe what they want to believe.” Read her full statement below.