Plumes of dust dance across the Emsengeni Primary School’s scorched playground, driven by strong southeasterly gusts that beat against weatherworn township classrooms. This arid patch of earth in the informal settlement of Zwide, on the fringes of Port Elizabeth, was where Springbok captain Siya Kolisi learnt to play rugby. “In my school, the sports field is gravel, and that is where he started playing,” says Emsengeni deputy principal and rugby coach Eric Songwiqi. “During break the boys would rush to eat their food and then ask for the ball so they could play.” This harsh turf was the arena in which Kolisi first handled a rugby ball — a humble start to a career that led to him making history as the first black captain to lift the William Webb Ellis trophy. “He was a tiny boy with skinny legs, but despite his size I could see that he was robust. He was just so passionate when he had the ball in his hands,” Songwiqi said. The now towering flanker was raised by his grandmother, Nolulamile Kolisi, who died at 66 in 2003 when Kolisi was 12 years old. With his father having gone in search of work in Cape Town after his mother’s death, Kolisi’s early years were marked by abject poverty. He often went to bed hungry. “He will always be a child of this dust,” his teacher, Amanda Mabote, told the Sunday Times this week. “He was good with his studies but like all boys he was naughty. I remember him being so impatient for school to finish so that he could go and play rugby on the field.” Mabote said that despite his fame, Kolisi was a humble product of Zwide and a symbol of hope for her children. “Whenever he comes to visit, he gives me a big hug and it makes me so happy. He even remembers the words to the school song.” The words “Siya please bring the cup home” are proudly emblazoned across her chalkboard. Kolisi’s break came in the form of a scholarship to Grey High School in Port Elizabeth. Scouts had noticed his talent at a youth rugby tournament in Mossel Bay. He was recruited in his last year of junior school and he would eventually move through the high school’s top teams, forming a launch pad for his career to professional rugby. Dean Carelse, who coached Kolisi throughout high school, said the boy was a symbol of hope. “It was never forced, it is just the person he is. He threw himself at every challenge with everything he had and that, along with his immense talent, is the reason for his success.” Carelse said that when Kolisi returned from the Grey boarding house to Zwide on weekends, other children would scoff and jeer at the sight of him in his uniform.“He refused to change into civvies. He never wavered and he was proud of who he was. Eventually people warmed and when I dropped him off, there would be a crowd of kids waiting for him at the bus stop. “He has always taken on every challenge with charisma. At his first physical education lesson he jumped into the pool and sank straight to the bottom. We hauled him out and he had a good chuckle about it,” Carelse said. After leading the Springboks to the World Cup final victory yesterday, the people of Zwide now eagerly await his homecoming. Kolisi’s cousin Lonwabo, who still lives in his childhood home in Mtembu Street, said the rugby star was a hero. “He is famous in the township; every child here idolises him. Watching him at the World Cup has been incredible because I have always looked up to him,” he said. Neighbour Guy Nceza, a mechanic, said the street was lined with fans whenever Kolisi returned home to visit. “Children come from the whole area and this road is packed, you can’t move here. I think when he comes back again everyone in the township is going to want to see him.” Among his fans is 12-year-old Liyabonga Bokwe, who regards Kolisi as his personal hero and plays rugby on the same dusty ground where Kolisi was first noticed. “I play hooker and I love rugby. When I grow up I want to be just like Siya.”