President Cyril Ramaphosa’s second South African Investment Conference didn’t have quite the feel-good factor of the first, but it definitely confounded the sceptics. He managed to draw a crowd of about 1,500, including captains of industry and some big money managers, to an event that ran relatively smoothly and allowed for some good networking. The damper that Moody’s might have put on proceedings was easily countered by the elation of the spectacular Springbok win. Ramaphosa inspired the crowds and, crucially, he managed to round up R363bn in investment pledges over the next five years, up from last year’s R300bn and bringing him closer to his R1.2-trillion target. It sounded impressive, and worthy of the positive spin. And in a way, it is. The government and state-owned enterprises have cut their investment spending, but the private sector has continued to invest. Total fixed investment spending declined 1.4% last year in real, inflation-adjusted terms but the private sector number was positive — with the private sector now contributing almost 70% of SA’s total fixed investment spending, up from 65% five years ago. In money terms that means business is already investing more than R600bn a year of a total of R890bn. Set against that, R363bn over five years (let’s call it R75bn a year) is meaningful and could make a real difference. But unless it is new investment, over and above what companies were doing or going to do anyway, it may not add much. And unless it is new expansion projects, not just maintaining or modernising existing facilities, it’s not the spark that will ignite growth. At least SA’s private sector is still investing. If the president wants that repackaged as Investment Conference pledges, it’s a worthwhile exercise and it will inspire some confidence. It is worth underlining the point that business has not given up on the economy and still sees opportunities. It is worth underlining, too, just how much big companies in mining or industry or telecoms are investing in their existing businesses just to stay committed to SA. But this week’s pledges merit careful study. In an economy with limited growth prospects, companies are tending to focus on automation and efficiencies, not expansion. Official figures show that one of the few growth drivers in private-sector investment spending lately has been computer equipment and automation. Much of what was pledged at the conference may well have been of that efficiency-enhancing kind, and while that is genuine investment, it doesn’t do enough to expand capacity or create new businesses that enhance the economy’s ability to grow and create jobs in the longer term. At least some of this week’s pledges looked like regular stay-in-business capex. Of the new projects, several had already been announced. Noticeably, there were few new pledges of foreign direct investment. Which is not to say there weren’t some great projects that will create jobs and boost local economic activity. Nor is it a bad thing if the pledges were investments that companies had already decided and embarked on anyway. After all, it would be reckless for a company’s board to approve hundreds of billions of rands’ worth of investment spending just so it could stand on the stage at Ramaphosa’s conference. But though he claimed the pledges as a political victory, we did not hear Ramaphosa come out and clearly state — as he should have — that business is the driver of investment, growth and jobs in SA. Nor, crucially, did he have much to say on the issues that most worry business and make it hard to commit to new investment — such as the leadership of Eskom or the electricity price path. As one CEO put it: “We have got to move from knowing what has to be done to doing what has to be done.” Unless the president can demonstrate he can do that, more investment conferences will just be more spin.