The ANC Youth League on Sunday confirmed that party member Lethabo Nkoane was shot dead after an event in Hammanskraal on Saturday. Police and the league confirmed on Sunday that the incident took place outside the Temba Stadium in Tshwane. The league's national task team said it was “disturbed and dismayed” at the violence, which took place “at an assembly of cadres of the ANCYL”. “The cadres' assembly was called by the ANC NYTT as part of its programme of provincial and regional visits in order to communicate the road map to congress and to assess the state of the organisation. “The NYTT is deeply concerned at the events which occurred in Tshwane which escalated to the killing of a member of the ANCYL and the injury of another member who was subsequently hospitalised. The cadres' assembly was adjourned as a result of disruptions and after the adjournment, violence escalated outside the venue of the meeting, leading to the killing of a comrade Lethabo Nkoane,” the task team said in a statement on Sunday. It added that officials had met with Nkoane's family in the wake of the incident. “All cadres' assemblies have been postponed until further notice in order to allow the family the necessary respect and space to grieve and to ensure that the ANC NYTT sits to restrategise on how to deal with its internal challenges and the rebuilding process. We urge all our members, supporters and young people in general to desist from all forms of violence. “The ANCYL has lost a vibrant, committed and dedicated young activist. This tragedy comes at a time when those who are determined to derail the organisation from its renewal process are heightening their activities and we implore every member to be vigilant of these counter revolutionaries and criminal elements within our movement,” the task team said. According to police spokesperson Brig Mathapelo Peters, Nkoane was 25 years old. “Preliminary reports reveal that an argument broke out among some delegates during a political rally at the stadium, and this led to scenes of violence where the delegates allegedly started attacking each other. “It is reported that the deceased was trying to diffuse the fight when an unknown man emerged from the crowd and fired shots at the deceased, fatally wounding the 25-year old victim,” said Peters. The wounded party was the “organiser of the rally”, Peters said. “The suspect is said to have driven off in a grey BMW with unknown registration,” she said. By Sunday morning, no arrests had been made.