Just when you thought Bonang Matheba couldn’t get bigger, she’s going global. Or at least that is what SA’s long-standing “It girl” is planning. The TV and radio personality is moving to the US in a bid to get more international exposure. So far she hasn’t done badly. On Sunday she was awarded the first-ever African Influencer of the Year award at the E! People’s Choice Awards in Santa Monica. Last week, she attended a gala dinner in New York for Pencils of Promise, a non-profit organisation that builds schools around the globe. During this event, Trevor Noah received an activist award for contributing to education through his foundation. Queen B, as she’s called by fans, has also been invited to Charlize Theron’s Africa Outreach Project gala dinner on Tuesday. In an interview with the Sunday Times, Matheba, 32, said being able to work with Pencils of Promise, Noah and Theron was an honour. “Trevor Noah is someone who has inspired me and who I’ve had the honour of working with. To see him carry himself, SA and the dreams of so many young people is a reason to celebrate.” But Matheba, who has a bursary fund for black girls, said her work was not all glitz and glamour. “It looks like it’s all Hollywood lights but there’s a real reason behind it all. And I’m very honoured that Pencils of Promise and Charlize want to work with me for my humanitarian efforts.” She said she was glad to be part of a time when being African held so much power. “Our time is now and the black girl magic is so inspiring.” Matheba, who has been in the entertainment industry for over a decade, said going global had been part of her strategy for the past few years, but that things were only being set in motion now. “I’ve been very strategic with the moves around my career but just like fine wine, success takes a very long time.” She said while the finer details of her relocation were still being sorted out, the plan was to move after the first quarter of next year, after she had fulfilled current commitments. While the move won’t be permanent at first, Matheba hopes that things will “fall into place”. “Unfortunately in America, and in most parts of the world, in order to get the job done, you need to be on location.” Though she said she was very excited about the move, she said she would miss her family most. And, even though the TV star was coy to divulge details of projects on the cards, she revealed that she was shooting a US television-related project that fans would get to see soon.