Until a few weeks ago the average South African cared as much about rugby as the reproductive processes of the dung beetle. Yet this week slay queens were overheard discussing Springbok wing Cheslin Kolbe's agile moves - and, no, they weren't referring to his dance-floor potential during the summer club scene in Ibiza. OK, the minutiae of the rules of rugby seem to escape everybody except the guys who love spotting trains. No doubt an Encyclopedia Britannica could be devoted to the scrum alone. But thanks to our sensational victory most of us are now able to communicate in rudimentary rugby-speak. To the victor the spoils. Just a week ago, England's coach Eddie Jones looked as if he had been smacked in the face with a frozen haddock as the Springbok score raced way out of reach of his ambitions. Jones has a reputation as a formidable tactician, but on the day Springbok coach Rassie Erasmus taught him a cruel lesson: if you are a Machiavellian mastermind, hide the fact that you are a Machiavellian mastermind. Before the final, Bok fans had criticised Erasmus for the team's boring and predictable kicking style, but when it really mattered the team produced a performance for the ages. Jones was at a loss to explain the defeat. (It's simple, mate, you were outgunned and upstaged.) The England team were so gutted that they couldn't even pretend to be good sports. Players were seen removing their silver medals immediately after presentation. At least Prince Harry was gracious when he congratulated the jubilant Boks in their changing-room (good manners, obviously well brought up). England supporters consoled themselves with the belief that SA needed the trophy more than they did. After all, Brexit woes don't seem quite as dire as the situation we've found ourselves in. We've long been burdened by an unemployment crisis so severe and a crime rate so high that we're resigned to accept them as normal. We've barely staggered out from beneath the Chinese water torture of the Zuma years. For a decade we watched helplessly as No1 and his cohorts looted the country with impunity. Those who had the political authority to act against him were either conveniently deaf or politically too expedient. We kept crossing our fingers for a kitchen coup, but no such luck. Not even the farcical move in December 2015 of appointing a finance minister who had "Gupta stooge" written all over him could unseat the president. Although the banana republic barometer registered Code Red and the Zuma appointee managed only four days in the job, the president remained firmly rooted in his rocking chair on the stoep at Mahlamba Ndlopfu. When the opportunity for regime change finally came in 2017, Cyril Ramaphosa was elected ANC president by the narrowest of margins. Only 187 votes saved us from an irreversible slide into tinpot territory. Now we're faced with the hard reality that even with all the good intentions in the world there is no magic bullet to fix our country. What is it about rugby that has twice made it the nation's great unifier? Is it because we are able to visualise so graphically the long journey this game has travelled from the apartheid years to today? Is it because in our minds we cast back to a game traditionally played by bulky guys who believed biltong was a superfood and chicken a vegetable? Who relished the opportunity to pummel the opposition with brute force? Who rightly or wrongly conjured up the stereotype of a white baas bludgeoning his black labourers into submission? More than any other sport, rugby was a symbol of apartheid. There's a New Zealand poster printed in 1959 with the headline: "No Maoris - No Tour". The poster urges the public to attend a protest meeting in Wellington "to fight discrimination in the selection of the 1960 All Black team to tour SA" . More than 150,000 New Zealanders signed a petition opposing the tour, but All Black rugby authorities kowtowed to SA's segregationist policies and no Maori players were selected. Prime Minister Walter Nash refused to intervene and his cynical response was that to include Maori players "would be an act of the greatest folly and cruelty to the Maori race". Despite massive opposition the tour went ahead. By 1970 the only concession prime minister BJ Vorster was prepared to make to allow the All Blacks to tour was that three Maori players could be classified as "honorary whites". In 1976 some 30 African countries boycotted the Montreal Olympics as a direct result of an All Black tour to SA later that year. The tour took place despite a call by the UN for a sporting boycott of SA. The International Olympic Committee refused to punish New Zealand by banning them from the Montreal Games, so the African teams stayed at home. By 1981, revulsion at SA's race policies had escalated and all hell broke out when the Boks toured New Zealand. All Blacks captain Graham Mourie declared himself unavailable for selection in protest against apartheid. Police in riot gear battled to control demonstrators. Activists crashed a Land Rover through the gates of Gisborne stadium for the Boks' first game and scattered broken glass on the field. The game, however, went ahead. The Sunday Times reported that New Zealand cops had asked the Springboks not to taunt protesters as they feared the team's "derisive" gestures would further inflame emotions. The players had smiled and waved at demonstrators from their bus and police were concerned this behaviour would incite more rage. Years later, Nelson Mandela told a New Zealand anti-apartheid activist that when the Robben Island prisoners heard that one of the games - against Waikato in Hamilton - was cancelled when protesters occupied the pitch, they felt "like the sun came out". Conflict reached fever pitch at Eden Park in Auckland on September 12 for the third and deciding Test. Four years earlier to the day, Steve Biko had died in detention and some protesters held placards that honoured him. A young activist and a pilot hired a Cessna that they loaded with three banana boxes filled with flour bombs and anti-apartheid leaflets and headed for Eden Park. Years later activist Grant Cole, who was 19 at the time, told stuff.nz that pilot Marx Jones radioed ground control: "This is radio anti-apartheid. Please inform the police and the rugby union they've got just 10 minutes to stop the third Test." Cole described the scenes around Eden Park: "The place was surrounded by shipping containers and barbed wire and little military outposts . It was a bit of a fortress." The first few flour bombs Cole dropped sailed clear past the stadium. "I thought I would drop it and it would go straight down." Springbok captain Wynand Claassen reportedly asked "whether New Zealand had an air force?" Danie Gerber was one of the Springbok players on tour. "We were worried that the plane would get hit or collide with something and crash on the field . it must have made 50 or 60 sorties low across the ground." The Springboks couldn't stay in hotels and some nights they were forced to sleep in local police cells. "At least it was safe in there, if not very comfortable on the bunk beds. Often the sleeping places were cold and occasionally we would have to go by bus to the ground at five or six in the morning to avoid demonstrators. That meant a long wait until kick-off at 3pm, but we did it," said Gerber. It seems appropriate that the country that is our toughest rugby adversary was also the stage for some of the most vociferous protests against apartheid. The 1995 World Cup win had all the elements of an epic saga. The dawn of democracy. A president revered across the world. The most fearsome rugby opponents on the planet. A nail-biting score. A drop goal that seemed ordained by the rugby gods. Chester Williams, the only black member of the 1995 squad, recalled Mandela visiting the locker room before the game. "We knew we had to go out there and win it for SA. There were tears in my eyes. But some of the other guys were so moved they were openly crying. That this man who had suffered so much should forgive and want us to win was incredible. It was the only motivation we needed." But the happy ending appeared to be a mirage. Rugby seemed unable to shake off its divisive reputation and racist legacy. In a controversial biography released seven years later, Williams claimed fellow Springbok James Small had once screamed at him during a match: "You f***ing k****r, why do you want to play our game? You know you can't play it." Williams revealed he always felt he was viewed as a "quota player". "You know, much of it was born of the belief that being white in SA somehow made you superior to anyone born black." Last week, 1995 Springbok captain Francois Pienaar cheered his guts out in Yokohama stadium. "This is bigger. This is bigger because it is a transformed team . 58-million people watching in SA yesterday morning, and all races would have woken up wearing green, which wouldn't have happened in my time," he said after the game. No Bok captain before him has been the focus of such intense scrutiny as Siya Kolisi. Not only did he have to bear the burden of being the first black Springbok captain, there was the added pressure of what a win would mean back home. The tale of Captain Fantastic has been repeated many times and Kolisi has become the poster boy for international rugby. His story comes full circle today with the Bok victory parade in the Eastern Cape, where he grew up. There are other Springboks who, by beating the odds, have inspired fans to dream. Breyton Paulse, a Springbok player from 1999 to 2007, tweeted last week: "Wow folks, that yuwas f**kin' beautiful. What a bunch of winners. Dankie Rassie, Siya and the boys. That's how you unite a nation. Dankie Bokke." Paulse grew up on a farm near Ceres. His mother was a domestic worker. Living in SA is life on Planet Crazy and has our particularly crazy brand of humour. There was some hilarity among the press corps on Thursday when the Springbok victory bus travelling between Pretoria and Soweto had to make an emergency pit stop on the Soweto highway. We are reliably informed that the excessive consumption of alcohol had nothing . er, nothing . to do with this. Cops dutifully formed a phalanx to shield our champs and their sensitive bits from curious motorists. The memes flew thick and fast with everything from pronking Springboks to James Bond and the Queen ("What about Eddie Jones, Ma'am?"; "Make it look like an accident, 007"). Our bonsai Bok became an instant social media celebrity. The image of Faf de Klerk in nothing but his Mzansi speedo and golden locks chatting breezily to the grandson of a monarch whose ancestors go back to the ninth century was priceless. Well, why not? In the Bok locker room of 2019 lineage no longer matters. Here it's raw talent and sheer guts that make kings.