This not-so-secret secret bar generated a lot of hype by requiring a password for entry after it opened in 2016, but these days it needs only its reputation for stand-out cocktails - and its recent appearance on the World's 50 Best Bars extended 51-100 list. It's still small though, and they've recently stopped taking reservations (despite what the website says). With space for 45 max, you'll need to get there early to secure your spot at the bar. The Rosebank Mall has virtually all the country's big chain stores, but, for something unusual, seek out the Iwasshot in Joburg stall. This community shop - operating from a table opposite Clicks - sells artworks and souvenirs inspired by photos snapped by homeless children. The result is edgy, Jozi-branded goodies. For something more traditional, the Rosebank Art & Craft Market on Cradock Avenue sells beading, sculpture and gifts and is open daily. See artandcraftmarket.co.za. The weekly Rosebank Sunday Market on the roof of the mall has a wide range of arts, crafts, souvenirs, clothing and bric-a-brac. There's also food and live entertainment, and a car-boot sale on the last Sunday of the month, where you're almost guaranteed to find something whacky if you're patient enough to hunt. For art lovers, there are several galleries all within close proximity. Look out for the Circa and Everard Read galleries on Jellicoe Avenue, the Goodman Gallery and Kim Sacks Gallery on Jan Smuts, and the SMAC and TMRW galleries in the Trumpet building on Keys Avenue. The Trumpet building is also the heart of "Keyes Thursdays" - their version of First Thursdays, on the first Thursday of the month - with street food, gallery events and live music. There's also a new Pantry Market on the last Saturday of the month with fresh, artisanal produce on sale and live music. See keyesartmile.co.za. Paul's Home-made Ice cream is a home-grown brand that is a favourite among locals for their cones, cups and ice-cream cakes. The flavours - such as Dulce de Leche, Cookies & Cream and Birthday Cake - are scrumptious, but they get extra points for a sense of humour. October's flavour of the month, for example, is called Bad Breakup. As they explain, "October is the month of Halloween and scary things, and what's more terrifying than a Bad Breakup? This chocolatey, fudgey concoction will help you through even the toughest goodbyes." How can we not say hello? Marble is a favourite on the Joburg dining scene, where chef David Higgs puts a high-end spin on South Africans' love of cooking over an open flame. It's won numerous accolades, including three at the recent 2020 American Express Dining Awards.