SA hasn't had many perfect days in the tumultuous past decade, but yesterday came close. It wasn't just that we won the Rugby World Cup, and did so in great style, it was the mosaic of magical moments in Japan that made it almost unbelievable, crowned by the sight of a black captain lifting the Webb Ellis Cup. Suddenly, it was easy to believe in the Rainbow Nation again, and to convince ourselves that somewhere out there is a crock of gold. There was something beautiful about the symbolism of Yokohama. Coached by an Afrikaner, Rassie Erasmus, and captained by Siya Kolisi, from an Eastern Cape township, the Springboks chalked up two magnificent tries, scored by Makazole Mapimpi and Cheslin Kolbe. The kicked points were contributed by Handre Pollard, and Duane Vermeulen was named player of the match. There was toyi-toying on the podium as the players passed around the trophy, then Kolisi went to embrace his white, English-speaking wife and carried their two children into the midst of the celebrations on the pitch. TV images showed Eben Etzebeth, who faces scrutiny for alleged racism when he gets home, planting a full-blooded kiss on Trevor Nyakane's forehead as they embraced. Then President Cyril Ramaphosa arrived and, like Nelson Mandela at Ellis Park in 1995, he was in the green-and-gold No 6 jersey also worn by the national captain. That was a timely reminder that we've been here before. The upwelling of hope and national unity that the Springbok fountain appears uniquely equipped to deliver was almost tangible across the country yesterday, just as it was in 1995 and again in 2007. But it was also apparent that this time might be a little different. In his first TV interview after the final whistle, Kolisi thanked supporters back home in "shebeens, taverns, farms, and the homeless". Vermeulen expressed the wish that the victory should bring "hope" to SA. And speaking to CNN on the eve of the match, Erasmus said a Springbok victory could act as a catalyst to help resolve some of the country's complex problems. "In my role as director of rugby, I'm determined to kick this on," he said. "[Victory] will mean a lot but it can't mean something for [only] a week. It must mean something and we must then capitalise on it, and use it, and fix SA with it." It's easier said than done, of course, and in explaining how the Springboks succeeded, Kolisi also illustrated why so many of our national problems seem intractable. "We came together with one goal, and we wanted to achieve it," he said. "We can achieve anything if we work together as one." It was clearly a message for everyone watching at home, but history has taught us that it will fall on deaf ears unless Erasmus really can "kick this on". Ramaphosa, for instance, is scrumming against half the ANC as well as the opposition. When Tito Mboweni delivered his medium-term budget policy statement on Wednesday, he already knew ratings agency Moody's was going to chip over his head and score under the posts. Overweight state-owned enterprises are pulling down the rolling maul set in motion by a rejuvenated SA Revenue Service. Violent criminals are taking SA's reputation and ruthlessly trampling it underfoot while the criminal justice system appears to be whistling in the dark. Yesterday's Springbok victory came 20 months since Erasmus took over as coach - "the hardest job in world rugby", according to England coach Eddie Jones, who understands the politics that go with the job. Ramaphosa has been president for 20 months, and it's fair to say the mess he inherited was of a different magnitude. But only one of these SA leaders has come close to turning a sow's ear into a silk purse, and Kolisi's post-match remarks neatly summed up how and why that has transpired. Perhaps the Springbok captain's emphasis on unity of purpose is a lesson even the ANC can learn as we ride a rugby-fuelled wave of euphoria into a new decade.