Sneakers, television sets and microwaves, as well as camping chairs and basic necessities like toilet paper and fabric softeners, are in  high demand with #BlackFriday consumers prowling the aisles at the Mall of Africa shopping centre in northern Johannesburg. Bargains on branded clothing and sneakers caused a frenzy at Sports Scene, where some customers are grabbing items out of each other’s hands, young people are lined up to get trendy outfits and empty shoe boxes are all over the floor as customers relentlessly search for their size and preferred colour and designs. Michael Thobakgale said he came to buy December wear as a reward for his children. “The festive season is here and our children want to look good. This is my chance to get them nice clothes. This way I can enjoy myself in December. I’m not one to queue this long, but what can I do?” Thobakgale asks, as he requests a shoe size from the shop assistant. At Game, “a lot of TV’s were flying around. I came here for the 58-inch Hisense set. With all those people, it’s a jungle but we made it. I’m happy about what I’ve bought. I’ve eyed it for a while now,” said Nomzamo Buthelezi. Dikeledi Makofane came with her two sons because she needed “more hands” as she has been saving for months to get bargain deals. “It’s our second year coming together. They already know who needs to do what. This way we are quick and get the most. Also, as boys, they are stronger and can get to the item quicker (than me) in this crazy crowd. “I had about R12,000 saved for this. I really just wanted household stuff. Detergents, toilet paper, fun December things - camping chairs and cooler boxes,” Makofane said. The Russell Hobbs microwave for R899 and the R649 kettle were also in high demand with shoppers at this store. Mr Price Clothing has what they call “the ultimate Black Friday line-up” with summer items going at a three-for-two price. The one-day deals saw customers snatching accessories, handbags, trendy T-shirts, childrens' clothing, summer dresses and jeans from the aisles. Youngsters filled the shop as they came to choose clothes with their parents. “It’s cheap on a normal day, so today we’re getting better deals. I  didn’t plan. I know how much I can spend, I just don’t know on what,” Arjun Dewan said. He was hoping to spoil his younger sister, who wanted the Samsung Galaxy A30 cellphone that went for R2,999. “This is fun, it gives you some kind of adrenaline, we needed to get busy and excited. She’s been asking me for a new phone,” said Dewan. A young woman who came with her mother was less than impressed with the shopping overkill. “I’m here to support my mom, otherwise this is not exciting for me. It’s absurd, November and October are months when marketing teams don’t really make money  cause there isn’t any particular public holiday like Valentine’s Day or anything to spend on. But close to and in December is where they get us. It’s quite straining and people don’t see it for the little scam it is,” said the agitated young lady, who asked not to be named. “Black Friday is here to make us feel like now we can spend and it’s 'worth it' because apparently it’s cheaper. Branded stores spray luxury perfumes to lure us in and entice us and make us feel like we need it to be a certain way. I love marketing,” she said sarcastically. Checkers Hyper is one of few shops that maintained the momentum hours after doors opened to the public for Black Friday deals. Liquifruit juices and fizzy cold drink bottles appeared in a majority of trolleys, and many customers lined up for the Pampers deal, with two giant packs going for R320. “I came here strictly for nappies. These things are expensive,” Mpho Tau said. Coffee lovers are also in for a treat as the 200g Jacobs instant coffee is selling at R60. It usually sells for R70-R100 in stores. Paul Abraham said he was tired of standing in the queue and was late for work, but he scored the deals he wanted. “I asked to come in a bit late but it’s taking too long now. I came here for specific things and I got all of them, coffee being an important item. “Toilet paper, camping stuff and a microwave were top of the list. I expect my wife to be proud of me,” he said.