On the eve of his return to South African airwaves in September 2018, broadcasting icon Xolani "XG" Gwala placed a call through to his new producer. The radio host was scared. Having been off air for a year because of colon cancer, he asked 702 producer, 25-year-old Ayanda Mgede, whether she thought his lunchtime show was going to be OK. "I remember it like it was yesterday," said Mgede. "It was incredible. This giant of a man phoned me out of the blue and asked me for reassurance. I was so anxious the night before, thinking about how I would be working with him. When he phoned me I was like: 'What do you mean, you're scared? You are the XG. You don't get scared!'" Mgede said Gwala treated newsroom juniors with the same respect as senior staff. "He was a traditional old-school journo. We disagreed a lot but he would always sit and listen, and question, question, question. This man, who personified confidence on the airwaves, thrived on learning. He was never too arrogant to think that he knew everything," she said. "When it came to tech he was illiterate, though. Walking around the studio with his [ear]pods plugged into his iPad you would think he was tech-savvy, but he didn't even know how to turn on a computer. "He was like a kid when he learnt something new. He became giddy with excitement and was so grateful for being shown something new." Gwala died on Friday surrounded by family at the Wits Donald Gordon Medical Centre in Johannesburg. He was 44. The award-winning journalist's career saw him cross from radio to TV, where he hosted SABC1's highly successful Asikhulume talk show and SABC3's News Hour, before being lured back to the airwaves. After a brief stint with a radio station in Palestine he returned to SA and rejoined the SABC, then moved to 702. Members of the media have been fulsome in their praise of the silver-voiced broadcaster who made many a politician - including former president Jacob Zuma and President Cyril Ramaphosa - squirm when subjected to his sharp and meticulously researched interrogation. The SABC released a statement saying: "Xolani devoted his life to tackling and documenting issues of human interest, particularly those affecting the socioeconomic and political status of SA." Close friend and radio personality Redi Tlhabi said Gwala took justice for the downtrodden very seriously. "XG had a passion for human rights," said Tlhabi, who used to tease Gwala about his "terrible fashion sense". "It only started coming right when he hosted Asikhulume," she said. Fellow 702 presenter Eusebius McKaiser said Gwala's wit got him through Saturday-morning hangovers when the two worked together. McKaiser said he admired Gwala's ability to be simultaneously hard-hitting and respectful. "He was consistently charming . always treating interviewees with a level of respect." One of the things listeners loved most about him was his infectious laugh, the Gwala giggle. "Xolani had a particular signature," said McKaiser. "His voice and his laugh. That easy, affable laugh could just help you settle yourself." Gwala was born on June 25 1975 in Impendle outside Pietermaritzburg, KwaZulu-Natal. He attended St Mary's Seminary in Ixopo and graduated from Natal Technikon (now Durban University of Technology) with a diploma in public relations management. In 1995 he joined the SABC as a reporter and newsreader and for the next 25 years devoted his energies to an impeccable and wide-ranging media career, as a news anchor, producer and writer as well as a popular public speaker. In September 2017 he announced that he had been diagnosed with colon cancer and would be taking leave of absence from work to concentrate on his recovery. "He fought a formidable fight," said Tlhabi. "Even while he was receiving treatment in hospital, people would come to him for courage. He encouraged so many. The last time we spoke he said it was no longer in his hands. He died as he lived: surrounded by friends, family and love." Journalist Joanne Joseph said she watched Gwala grow into a formidable force in the 20 years they worked together. "While there is a tendency to disconnect as broadcasters, Xolani is one of those who never lost touch with the people, regardless of who they were," she said. Kaya FM presenter and former 702 host David O'Sullivan, who knew Gwala as a young reporter, said: "He was fearless in the quest to get that story and crack that interview. He was a brilliant journalist, asking the probing questions people wanted answered, never afraid to tackle big stories and put important people on the spot with his beautiful, capturing voice." O'Sullivan said that while Gwala was an admirable journalist, his singing and music choices were questionable - his favourite song was Take That's Back for Good. "He loved singing and needed no encouragement. We would be in the pub below the 702 offices when the manager and his brothers would bring out their musical instruments and strike up the band. Gwala couldn't help himself." Media mogul Basetsana Kumalo, godmother to one of Gwala's daughters, speaks of the love between Gwala and his wife, investment banker and former Miss SA Peggy Sue Khumalo. "I remember at an event, catching Xolani staring at uNhlanhla [Peggy Sue] with the deepest love and profound affection. I knew then that she had found a good man. He was such a good human being. The broadcasting industry is poorer today for having lost one who spoke to power and challenged the status quo." Parliament's official statement read: "An incredibly talented facilitator of national dialogue through diverse platforms over the years, Gwala made a huge contribution to nation-building and social cohesion . His voice has fallen silent now but our memories of him will remain." He is survived by Khumalo, their two daughters and two daughters from previous relationships.