Evidence from a crash in which  three UK charity workers died   when their bakkie and trailer plunged into the Swartkops River has been sent to a specialist team of accident investigators in Pretoria. Britons Susanna Naylor, 54, her husband, Christopher, 58, and A Rocha International charity co-founder Miranda Harris, 66, died from blunt-force trauma — either caused by the impact when the bakkie hit the bridge barrier or when it  plunged into the water — on October 28. Harris’s husband, Peter, survived  and was discharged from  hospital   last week, reports HeraldLIVE. However, police confirmed  he had been readmitted just days later for more tests. The evidence was gathered over the past three weeks as detectives took paint and other samples from the vehicles involved in the collision. Police spokesperson Captain Andre Beetge said  evidence was taken from both vehicles and the trailer — including paint scraping samples — to determine the point of impact. “All the evidence gathered on the scene has been sent to the specialist accident response investigations unit in Pretoria. They will collate all the details and evidence, assisting us with the scene reconstruction,” he said. Beetge said  several statements had been taken during the investigation to help with  ascertaining what had happened. “Together with the accident unit report and the statements, the case will be submitted for the state prosecutor to decide how to proceed.” No timeline could be given as to when the specialist reports would be completed. Thando Kalipa, 55, who was driving the group to Port Elizabeth from a lodge, said he suspected the car behind him had bumped the trailer, loaded with the Britons’ luggage. The four were in SA on a  holiday and work trip to look at future possibilities in SA for A Rocha International. Miranda and Peter Harris  were the co-founders of A Rocha, a Christian conservation charity that operates in more than 20  countries, with Christopher Naylor  an executive director of the organisation and Susanna a volunteer. The Harris family have since started an update posting section on the A Rocha website. According to a  post on Thursday, Peter went back to  hospital for more tests after feeling ill. “They have kept him in to adjust his medication  until he feels better. They have done the scheduled investigations which did not show any new problems.”