Comedian Ndumiso "The Roosta" Lindi says Xhosa people are "the Kardashians of the southern tribe" - often stereotyped as being dramatic, snobbish, fake and obsessed with money. To challenge these views he and fellow comedians have created a show that debunks, explores and laughs at some of the crazier perceptions. "If you check out trending topics and conversations on social media and on the streets, there is always 'Xhosa people this, Xhosa people that'. 'Xhosa ladies are gold-diggers' or 'Xhosa people are liars'," Lindi said. "Those things will come out on stage, which is why we are the Kardashians of the southern tribes. We are always on-topic. We need to cover those stereotypes and crush them." The show, Keeping Up With the Xhosaz, will be held at Vodaworld in Midrand because "everyone knows that Midrand is like a small Eastern Cape". He said the show would be a mix of Xhosa and English. "I have had this idea for a while. Comedy has grown to a point where comedians can just focus on performing in their mother tongue, and we have audiences hungry to hear that talent delivered in their language. We have also got to a point where we are tolerant of each other and we can make jokes about ourselves. There is a lot to debunk, but also a lot to celebrate about being Xhosa," he said. The show features top Xhosa comedians, including The Daily Show contributor Loyiso Madinga and former teacher Khanyisa Bunu. Madinga joined the hit US TV comedy show, hosted by Trevor Noah, last year. He said he would use the Vodaworld opportunity to share his love of the Xhosa culture. "Being Xhosa is amazing. I love the idea of having fun with other comedians. I love that we are able to make fun of ourselves and not take ourselves too seriously." He had been confronted with several stereotypes, including "women believing all Xhosa men are liars". "It is difficult to live with. It can really affect relationships." Madinga said he would not lecture people about tribalism - just make audiences laugh. Bunu is hoping to do the same, and break the stereotype that Xhosas are unapproachable and rude. "There are so many things that are said about us: that we are notorious for having drama, that we are fake, and that we love money. I have been told often that Xhosas aren't the nicest people. I want to show people that we are approachable and very nice people." She believes education is one of the best tools to overcome ignorance.