Bafana Bafana coach Stuart Baxter will earn exactly R0 from the remainder of his contract‚ he revealed at his press conference announcing his resignation in Johannesburg on Friday. Calculations have been that the SA Football Association (Safa)‚ had they wanted to fire Baxter‚ would have had to pay out around R17m remaining in the three years left on his contract. Safa acting chief executive Russell Paul‚ who attended the press conference at Killarney Country Club that was strangely privately called by Baxter‚ was asked if any settlement figure had been negotiated with the coach for him to resign. “I’ll answer that for Russell. The settlement will be a massive zero‚” Baxter said. “This is not about money. It’s never been about money for me. It’s been an honour to coach the national team. “I’ve been very upset when people have written things like‚ ‘The coach is not doing anything. Look at the PSL coaches and how hard they’re working‚ and the stress they’re under’‚ quoting anything between R12m and now R17m [to pay Baxter out should he be fired]. “It’s obviously the easiest way of upsetting people who are struggling in South Africa. To say that‚ ‘This lazy national coach who earns a fortune … ’ “This has never been about money. And all of those quotes were so far off the mark it was embarrassing. “Now‚ I’m resigning my role. Therefore‚ if Safa said to me‚ ‘We would like you to stay for two weeks extra or one month extra to help us in a transition’‚ then I would be paid for that. “But I won’t be paid anything for not doing anything‚ and certainly not for resigning from my job. “What I’m going to do next‚ I don’t know.” Paul then confirmed that Baxter would not be paid a settlement figure. “The coach has answered your question. So as far as we are concerned‚ we are at that place‚” Safa's acting boss said. Baxter failed to qualify for the 2018 World Cup in his second stint with Bafana of just over two years‚ but reached the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations‚ where South Africa exited in the quarterfinals with a 2-1 defeat to Nigeria.