A traditional healer in Mpumalanga who admitted killing a teen who had  albinism and her baby cousin for muti to boost his business will soon learn how long he will spend behind bars. Sentencing proceedings against Themba Thubane were expected to commence on Tuesday in the Middelburg high court. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) confirmed that Thubane pleaded guilty to seven charges. Provincial NPA spokesperson Monica Nyuswa said the man admitted to killing Gabisile Shabane, 13,  and her 15-month-old cousin Nkosikhona Ngwenya in order to extract muti from them to revive his failing business. Thubane was arrested with co-accused Thokozani Msibi‚ Brilliant Mkhize‚ and Knowledge Mhlanga in 2018, after they allegedly broke into the Shabane household in Hlalanikahle‚ Mpumalanga. The three co-accused have pleaded not guilty and are expected to return to court on May 25, 2020. The group was armed during the break-in when they kidnapped the victims and allegedly later murdered them. Thubane will be sentenced on charges including murder, kidnapping, housebreaking with intent to murder, and the violation of a corpse, according to Nyuswa. More than a year since the tragic ordeal, the family expressed relief at the commencement of sentencing proceedings. In an interview with eNCA, family spokesperson Chantel Ngwenya said the delays had caused unbearable pain to the family. "We're really happy the trial has commenced because we have been waiting for a long time. The waiting was killing us as a family. We are happy even though the others did not admit to committing the crime. It's painful to us, it shows that they are not remorseful for the pain they've caused us." On Thubane's guilty plea, Ngwenya said: "We hope that we will be able to find closure from the one that admitted to committing the crime. To us it shows he is remorseful, he has a conscience inside him, he regrets it." The family hopes the sentence will take into account the immense pain caused to them by the killings.