The charred body of a man found in the boot of a car on Sunday belonged to a national defence force soldier who was sent to Cape Town as part of Operation Lockdown. Western Cape community safety MEC Albert Fritz said on Friday the body belonged to a 41-year-old soldier. The SANDF confirmed, later on Friday, that the body was indeed that of a soldier. The member was working at a military base in the Western Cape and had been missing since August 16. “Reasons for this shocking act are not yet known and the SANDF is working with Mfuleni SAPS who are investigating the circumstances that led to this incident," said a statement  on Friday by Brig-Gen Mafi Mgobozi. “The minister of defence and military veterans Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, the secretary for defence Dr Sam Gulube and the chief of the SANDF General Solly Shoke extend their heartfelt condolences to the family, friends, and loved ones of the member." Two men were arrested in connection with the murder during a tracing operation on Monday and Tuesday after fire and rescue services personnel extinguished a burning Hyundai in Silversands Road, Mfuleni. Theodore Loggenberg, 43, appeared in Blue Downs magistrate's court on Thursday, and the second man, aged 24, remains in custody. Loggenberg is due back in court on Monday. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said more arrests were expected. Fritz commended the police for the arrests. "We cannot tolerate such a gross disregard for the peace and safety of the people of our province," he said. "We cannot allow gangsters to intimidate and terrorise our communities, particularly those that are most vulnerable." Fritz called on the police to determine whether the murder was gang-related, and to "ensure the arrest, conviction and incarceration of gang leaders who may have given the directive to kill a soldier". He added: "The SANDF has been deployed to assist us in safeguarding the province and we must do everything in our power to support them." Police spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said the incident was still under investigation and no more details were available.