Wayde Jooste hammered the winner four minutes into stoppage time at the end of a scrappy affair to see Lamontville Golden Arrows to a crucial 1-0 Absa Premiership victory away at Baroka FC at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane on Wednesday. It was somewhat undeserved as Steve Komphela’s team are now knocking on the door of the top eight while Baroka remain firmly in relegation danger. Two shots on target in the entire 90 minutes reflected of the poor quality of the contest until substitute Jooste let loose a flying volley from outside the area in the 95th minute to win the game.. It was unfortunate for Baroka who have now won just one in their last nine games and look as they are strong candidates for the chop. The first half saw more work for the medics than the goalkeepers with both teams kicking lumps out of each other. There was a horror kick from Baroka teenage midfielder Goodman Mosele on Velemseni Ndwandwe just before half-time that should have led to a red card from referee Thando Ndzanzeka. Instead, he was fortunate to be shown only a yellow but his coach Wedson Nyirenda wasted no time in taking the hotheaded 19-year-old off, bringing Mduduzi Mdantsane on before the break in his place. Ndwandwe, just back from six months on the sidelines with a shin injury, limped out of the game on the stroke of half-time. Arrows coach Komphela was well within his right to complain loudly to the ref for more effective action at half-time. Siyabonga Dube also got a thud on his jaw from Baroka striker Siyabonga Vilani, letting out cries of agony as he was pole-axed. Tebogo Sodi missed a early chance for Baroka and, at the other end, Dube went wide with a header for Arrows but the opening 45 minutes were of a poor standard. Two changes soon after half-time injected some life into Baroka, with Jemondre Dickens and Collins Makgaka brought on. Dickens had a headed chance not long after but powered it over the target. He should have scored in the 73rd minute but again missed out But the game then went back to type, error-ridden and ultimately of a poor quality, save only by Jooste’s sumptuous winner. 