The Huawei P smart was first introduced last year and, in keeping with current trends, the second-generation mid-range handset has been upgraded with features usually found on a premium device. These features include a brand new design with a minimalist dewdrop notch; a full-screen display with no bezels at the top or bottom; two rear cameras with AI functionality; and dual SIM support. It’s also available in a new ombré hue, reminiscent of the popular Twilight shade of the Huawei P20 Pro. Design and display The P Smart 2019 is lightweight at 160g, sits comfortably in the hand and you would never guess the screen is 6.21 inches in size. The slim, elongated design manages to disguise that, but rest assured, it won’t slip out of your hands. This review unit is in the stunning Aurora Blue shade and a clear cover is included in the box to keep it clean and fingerprint free. The high-resolution display (2340x1080p) supports full-HD playback on YouTube and other supported apps, and the large screen size is well suited for catching up on your favourite Netflix shows or Instagram stories. The technicalities The P Smart 2019 is powered by the Kirin 710 chip, 3GB of RAM and 64GB of storage, which is expandable. The handset supports dual SIM on selected networks, which is fantastic news for anyone in SA who cannot afford high data costs and would prefer shopping around for a cheaper deal without changing their number. Included in the box is a charging cable, a two-pin plug and a pair of earphones. Everyday usage Straight out of the box, it runs on the current Android 9 Pie operating system, which is great, and comes preloaded with the Google Suite of apps, Facebook, Netflix and Messenger. The phone supports fingerprint and facial unlocking, which is quick on both options. I enjoyed watching YouTube videos in full HD over Wifi, and catching up on Netflix with offline play. Sound quality is fine, but some might prefer using earphones. The dewdrop notch does not affect your viewing experience on full-screen mode. Battery life lasts a full day and into the night. You’re not likely to need a power bank, unless you push it to its limits. Cameras The dual rear cameras are a 13MP+2MP combination that gives you a blurry background effect on shots, ideal for making your Instagram photos pop. There are also soft-light and stage-light features on portrait mode. If you want to use the AI camera, simply tap it on-screen and it will automatically detect the scene in front of you and optimise the colours. The result is a brightened HDR-like effect that makes colours stand out. Sometimes it may be better to shoot without it and apply minor edits after. The selfie camera is 16MP, which I found to be of better quality than the rear, at times. For example, I took pictures of people in front of me, but the quality of the selfies was better. So if you’re all about that Instagram life, this is going to make you happy. Both cameras shoot videos in full 1080p HD. Final thoughts The Huawei P smart 2019 is aimed at a younger crowd who want to be seen with a trendy smartphone, and at the recommended retail price of R4,999, it’s a sweet spot. You’re getting a lot more phone for your money, it looks good and performs well. The dual-SIM feature is a good reason to get it over any other phone in this category. Please note that select operators carry the dual-SIM phone. This article was paid for by Huawei.