From the alleged abuse of musician and dancer Babes Wodumo, to the fatal assault of 27-year-old Thoriso Themane, here is a wrap of recent violent incidents that shocked us. Babes Wodumo The alleged abuse of Bongekile Simelane, popularly known as Babes Wodumo, continues to send shock waves across the country, again shining the spotlight on domestic violence and women abuse. A video was posted on Simelane's Instagram page which appears to show a man believed to be her partner Mampintsha physically abusing a woman believed to be Simelane. Parktown fatal shooting A man whose identity is unknown died after he was shot multiple times at an intersection between Queens Road and Princess Place in Parktown on Monday March 4. The police's Kay Makhubele, who confirmed the incident, said the man was driving a BWM X5. A forensics team arrived at the scene while the police removed the man's body around 6.30pm. Matwetwe's  Sibusiso Khwinana's murder A cellphone is all it took for Matwete's lead actor Sibusiso Khwinana to lose his life. The star was with his friend when the attack occurred on March 1. Matwetwe's executive producer and DJ Nathi Maphumulo, popularly known as Black Coffee, delivered the devastating news on Twitter on Saturday. Police captain Mavela Masondo confirmed the death of the 25-year-old star and said he suffered multiple stab wounds. Thorisho Themane's murder Limpopo musician Thorisho Themane, 27, was fatally assaulted on February 23 2019, allegedly by a group of high school pupils. Themane's horrific assault was captured on video and shared across social media platforms. South Africans called on the authorities to act swiftly and apprehend those implicated. Six teenagers have since appeared in court in connection with the murder. Themane was laid to rest on Saturday March 2 2019. Edenvale High School shooting A robbery attempt at Edenvale High School left two suspects dead after a shootout at the school. Spokesperson for Ekurhuleni Emergency Services William Ntladi confirmed the incident and said an AK47 was found close to the school gate. Police spokesperson Kay Makhubele confirmed that while two suspects remain at large, two were arrested on the scene. Dowerglen High School shooting A matric pupil who was in class was injured when two armed gunmen went on a shooting spree at Dowerglen High School in Edenvale on February 13. Explaining how the suspects ended up at the school's premises, the police's Mavela Masondo said they were fleeing another crime scene. Masondo said the injured learner was taken to hospital. "Two suspects were arrested on the scene and the other two fled on foot."