Dieting is the bane of many people’s existence and they are constantly in search of new diet plans to lose weight. However, a few simple lifestyle changes that make you more aware of what you eat — and how you eat it — could be all the help you need to get rid of those unwanted kilos and keep them off. Try these ideas: Eating slower can help to decrease your food intake and increase your satiety. You give yourself time to taste your food, increasing your enjoyment, while allowing your brain time to register that you’ve eaten. Because you have control over what food you have at home, this is a good place to start. If you can’t resist buying snacks, put them out of sight. Leave only healthy snacks, like fruit, on your kitchen countertops to help avoid temptation – out of sight, out of mind, after all. Putting your food onto smaller plates can help you decrease your portions and the amount of kilojoules you consume. It can also help you feel satisfied after just one portion and decrease the likelihood of dishing up seconds. In order to focus on what you eat, you need to put your phone away and stop watching TV. Not only does eating while you’re on your phone, working on your computer or watching TV distract your brain from registering that you’re eating, it can lead to overindulgence. A study published in the journal SLEEP showed there is an increased risk for obesity in children and adults who do not get sufficient sleep. A lack of sleep causes fluctuations in the levels of the hormones that control hunger and stimulate appetite, leading to an increase in the amount of food consumed. Dish up in the kitchen instead of putting big bowls of food on the dinner table. You will be less likely to overindulge and to help yourself to a second serving. If you find yourself reaching for a snack or eating because you are stressed or emotional, try to replace food with something to drink instead, such as a healthy, soothing cup of herbal tea. Often we forget that beverages contain kilojoules. Full-cream, sugary cappuccinos; lattes; fruit juices and drinks that are high in sugar can be the source of unwitting kilojoule consumption. Replace these drinks with healthier options, such as water or tea. A moderate intake of coffee has health benefits, so learn to drink it with low-fat milk and no sugar. Your taste buds will adapt and you will get used to the taste.