The last time Marelize Horn tried to ride a bicycle on a sports field, it didn't end well. In fact, it ended with a "My fok Marelize", uttered by her mother after the 19-year-old crashed into a rugby post. This time, though, Marelize had help. Numerous strong young Capetonians swarmed around the bubbly teenager on Saturday afternoon as she rolled up her baggy trousers and planted her strappy sandals on the pedals. Then she was off, completing two short and incident-free circuits of a Cape Town sports field and revelling in the attention of photographers and members of the Velokhaya Life Cycling Academy, from Khayelitsha, who ensured she stayed in the saddle. Marelize arrived at the sports field direct from the Cape Town Cycle Tour expo, where cyclists registering for Sunday's 109km spin around the peninsula clamoured for selfies with the social media sensation. "I nearly fell over twice on the way to the car," said Marelize, describing herself as abnormally accident-prone. She was flown to Cape Town with her mother, Heidi - the woman whose muttered words turned a mildly diverting 16-second video into a phenomenon that sparked T-shirts, songs, memes and worldwide amusement - by Cycle Tour sponsor Pick n Pay. The supermarket group, which has 22 stores in Namibia, has been quick to capitalise on Marelize's instant fame. On Saturday it dressed her in a T-shirt featuring a screen-grab from her mother's video, one of its own delivery trucks and the words: "My trok! Marelize." For her bike ride, it put her in a Velokhaya jersey before handing the academy five new bicycles in her honour. On Sunday, Marelize fired the starting pistol for two of the groups in the Cycle Tour. "They're giving me a gun!" she said. Standing in the background while Marelize bathed in the media spotlight was Heidi, proud as punch and now seeking an agent for her younger daughter. Marelize has abandoned plans to au pair in The Netherlands and hopes to capitalise on her instant fame and become a motivational speaker. If her confident performance on Saturday is any guide, she is highly likely to fall on her feet.