A homeless man came to the rescue of frustrated motorists at a busy intersection affected by load-shedding. With load-shedding in full swing across the country, this homeless man was caught on camera as he took on the responsibility to direct traffic at an intersection in Durban. In a video taken by Rudy Nkgadima from the Berea Mail, a man, who is clad in shorts, flip-flops and a t-shirt, is spotted at an intersection on Hunt and King Dinzulu roads in Berea, Durban. He might not have the qualifications of a traffic officer, but the man seems to have earned the same respect. He stands in the middle of the intersection and uses hand signals to direct traffic approaching from all four sides of the intersection. The man has received praise on social media from locals for his selfless deed. "Whilst a trained traffic cop is doing nothing in the parked car or office and earning a salary...someone is doing an excellent job out there and earning nothing...so sad," one comment read. A second comment read: "Is this not a possible initiative for job creation? A company ...sourcing these homeless people, providing them with training and employing them?" Others have also slammed qualified traffic officials for not being visible at busy intersections during load-shedding. "And it takes our traffic police several years plus bribes to learn this!!!," one comment read. Another read: "Meanwhile, at this time of load-shedding, a traffic cop will be sitting behind a speed camera instead of directing traffic at affected robots." Meanwhile, KwaZulu-Natal metro police spokesperson Parboo Sewpersad said the man's actions were illegal. "People must report this to the metro police. He is doing something illegal. You can't go into an intersection, only a traffic officer is allowed to take control of an intersection," Sewpersad said. Sewpersad said their main focus was on the most strategic intersections within the city. "We are not dealing with all the intersections. We've got public protests, we've got our mandate in terms of traffic enforcement to do and we are dealing with a whole lot of issues."