A 42-year-old man playing with dolls could raise eyebrows. Except if the man in question is comedian Conrad Koch, who has made a career out of puppetry and has represented SA on global stages with his ventriloquism skills. Koch, who admits his most popular puppet, Chester Missing, is more famous than he is, returned last month from successful tours in Canada and Australia. He said they bear testament to the world being ready for a "Made in SA" taste of puppetry and comedy. "It was scary to not only focus on politics, but to talk about relationships or about world racial and political issues. "But I went to Canada last year and I can't tell you how phenomenal the response was. I got five-star reviews and shows being sold out in a day. I had people waiting outside in long queues to get tickets to my show." Conversations around colonialism and land restitution had really hit the mark with the Canadian audience, he said. Koch has visited Australia twice in the past six months. His most recent performance there was the Fringe World Festival in Perth last month. He said it was very exciting to be compared with world-class ventriloquists and to be praised for his performances. "We may think that [Australians] have crazy racist views, and some do, but the opposite is also true. They have a politically progressive population that is very keen to discuss their issues. "So my experiences as a white South African were very well received. They enjoyed engaging with them and were very open to laugh at themselves." Koch says touring abroad led to a deeper appreciation of his South African origins. "In SA, we value joy and laughter because our humour comes from pain. It's because it has cost SA so much to find joy, so we value it much more and that's a uniquely South African thing." He has no plans to retire his dolls. "No. I play with dolls. Yes, I'll be 90 and I'll play with dolls. Definitely. I love playing with dolls. My dolls rock!" The comedian, who has a master's degree in social anthropology, said Chester had taken on a life of his own and in many ways had become larger than "just a puppet". But Koch admits that as Chester gained more fame, he became more fearful of becoming "lost" in the puppet's voice and having his other artistic ideas wither. "I just became so lost in that one political sound, which to be honest can be artistically boring. I have found a way to have more fun with comedy and, even though it's still political, it's more playful." He is referring to his new show, Puppet Guy, in which he gives the audience a comedy experience including one-on-one engagement using Snapchat and creating digital puppets. Chester will also share the spotlight with three other puppets: an outrageous ostrich puppet made out of a slipper and feather dusters; a mosquito; and a DJ puppet boasting a hoodie and sunglasses.