More sponsors have pulled out of the Afrikaans is Groot concert, SARS has a new boss and Bosasa made its return to the Zondo Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. Here are five stories that dominated headlines this week.Steve HofmeyrTwo sponsors of the Afrikaans is Groot concert have succumbed to mounting pressure and have pulled out of the event. Toyota announced that it has ended its four-year partnership with AIG. Media24 has withdrawn its platforms Beeld, Huisgenoot, Netwerk24 and VIA from the concert. The AIG organisers have continued to back Steve Hofmeyr, who is featured on their show's line-up, despite public backlash. AIG has now started a campaign to source funding from the public. New SARS commissionerPresident Cyril Ramaphosa on Wednesday appointed Edward Kieswetter as the new SARS commissioner, effective  May 1.Kieswetter, who once served as deputy commissioner of the revenue collector, will take over from acting commissioner Mark Kingon.Kieswetter was selected from a shortlist of candidates, which included Kingon. Duduzane ZumaThe son of former president Jacob Zuma, Duduzane, stood trial for charges relating to a 2014 car accident that claimed the life of Phumzile Dube.One culpable homicide charge for the death of Jeanette Mashaba was dismissed. Pathologists determined that Mashaba died of natural causes a few weeks later in hospital and not due to injuries linked to the accident.Zuma now faces one charge of culpable homicide after his Porsche crashed into a minibus taxi on the M1 highway in Johannesburg,  leading to the death of  Dube. Bosasa at the Zondo commission Two former Bosasa employees appeared before the Zondo Commission of Inquiry into State Capture this week.Tax consultant Peet Venter detailed how he was allegedly instructed by Bosasa boss Gavin Watson to make payments to the likes of Andile Ramaphosa, President Cyril Ramaphosa's son. Venter also described how Watson allegedly instructed him to pay the legal fees of former SABC head Hlaudi Motsoeneng.Former Bosasa executive Angelo Agrizzi returned to the commission with more bombshells. Agrizzi revealed how the company allegedly had about 38 government officials and politicians on its payroll. E-toll debt The South African National Roads Agency (Sanral) announced that it would halt debt collection for e-tolls. Sanral said the suspension of debt included historic debt and summonses dating back to  2015. Finance minister Tito Mboweni received much backlash after calling on Sanral to reverse its  decision.