Many preach about cooking in bulk and pull out tried and trusted family recipes come stage four load-shedding. But let's be honest, not all of us are gifted enough to prepare food ahead of time, often resorting to that Provita with jam. So what do you do when you're not a whizz in the kitchen and you've been hit by stage four power outages? Well, we've put together seven options for you, because considering we could be in the dark for a while yet, thanks to Eishkom, Provitas might become a bit boring after day three. Ingredients: Wrap/tortilla Lettuce Tomato Feta cheese Tuna Method: Cut up lettuce, tomato, feta and tuna, mix together and chuck it in the wrap. Seriously. Preparing rice ahead of time will come in handy when load-shedding hits. So always keep some  in the fridge. Ingredients: Cooked brown rice Avocado slices Radish slices Cucumber Carrot slivers Grated beetroot Sprouts Sesame seeds Olive oil Lemon juice Method: Use the brown rice as the base and top with avocado and radish slices, cucumber, carrot slivers and grated beetroot. Sprinkle with sprouts and sesame seeds. Dress with olive oil and lemon juice. Ingredients: 1 cucumber, sliced into noodle-like ribbons1 avocado Lemon juice Salt and pepper ¼ onion, finely sliced ¼ cup cream cheese Smoked salmon, sliced into ribbons 1 tbsp capers Method Yup, this healthy recipe by Roche Woodworth on livingchirpy.com includes just a handful of ingredients. You'll have to put some work in and mash the avocado until smooth. Add a bit of lemon juice, as well as salt and pepper. Coat the cucumber 'noodles' with the avocado 'sauce'. Top the noodles with the cream cheese, smoked salmon, onions and capers, and serve. Ingredients: 3 tins tuna 2 tbsp capers, chopped 5 tbsp olive oil 4 tsp red-wine vinegar Salt Pepper 1 medium fennel bulb, thinly sliced ¾ fresh leaf parsley, chopped Baguette Method: This recipe, featured on realsimple.com, is perfect for a quick dinner. Combine the tuna, capers, three tablespoons of the oil, the vinegar and ¼ teaspoon pepper in a medium bowl. In another bowl, mix the fennel, parsley, ¼ teaspoon each salt and pepper, and the remaining oil. Cut the baguette in half lengthwise, then into quarters crosswise. Top the bread with the tuna and fennel salads. Ingredients: Baked beans Canned sweetcorn Tomatoes Red peppers Onions Chillies Lemon juice Parsley Method: Check out the video below. Ingredients:Raw sushi rice Rice vinegar Caster sugar Sesame seeds, toasted Gherkins or fresh cucumber, sliced Carrots, peeled and julienned Can of tuna, drained and flaked 1 avocado, peeled and cubed Juice of ½ lemon Pickled gingerFor the dressing: 125ml (½ cup) rice vinegar 45ml (3 tbsp) soy sauce 10-15ml (2-3 tsp) runny honey 5ml (1 tsp) chopped garlic 10ml (2 tsp) grated ginger 5ml (1 tsp) sesame oil 15ml (1 tbsp) sweet chilli sauceMethod: 1. Make the sushi rice according to the packet instructions. 2. Combine the rice vinegar and caster sugar. 3. Place the rice in a large shallow dish and drizzle over the vinegar mixture. Use a plastic spatula to cut through the rice until the vinegar mixture is incorporated. Stir the sesame seeds through. 3. Divide the rice mixture into four serving bowls. 4. Top with the cucumbers, carrots, tuna, avocado and pickled ginger. 5. For the dressing, combine all the ingredients in a jar, shake and drizzle over each bowl before serving. Ingredients: Cracker Cheese Method: Okay, we don't always have the will nor the way with recipes, so Eishkom may just get the better of us. In that case, a cracker and cheese will do the trick, à la student vibes.