Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane on Monday unveiled his 10-point plan of things he would do in his first 100 days in office should the DA win the May 8 national polls. Speaking outside the Union Buildings in Tshwane, Maimane said his party had a good governance track record - as demonstrated in the DA-controlled Western Cape - from which the rest of South Africa deserved to benefit. His national plan of action for the  country focused on policies to create a "working nation". Maimane said the act would reduce unemployment significantly.  The legislation would, among other things, give incentives to multinational companies to make it easy for them to invest in the country and create jobs. "We believe, more than anything, that citizens must have the opportunity to enter the jobs market and we will stimulate key sectors like manufacturing, agriculture and tourism," said Maimane. "It is, indeed, that we fly rich people on SAA while we allow poor people to suffer on trains and give poor citizens who are dependent on welfare R10 social grants increases. Therefore, the immediate step we would take would be to put SAA on business rescue," Maimane said. The plan includes young people volunteering in the public service's key sectors, such as education, health and the judiciary, because "anyone who wakes up to go to work in the morning has dignity that goes with it", according to Maimane. Maimane said it was pointless to give a tablet to every pupil, as the ANC government had promised, if teachers were not equipped through training on how to operate in a digital-first age in education. The plan would also monitor pupil  progress to curb SA’s high drop-out rate. Maimane was of the view that the child support grant was too little, thus the DA would increase it. He dismissed critics who believed this was a populist stance, saying it was meant to be a starter pack for unemployed single mothers to look for work. "We must exempt small businesses from cumbersome labour legislation and we will improve cash flow," said Maimane. Maimane said the current cabinet was bloated and expensive to maintain, but a DA government would reduce it for efficiency and to cut costs. "It is clear that our bloated cabinet is a patronage network designed by the ANC to make sure their comrades stay employed," he said. Maimane believes a collaboration between provincialised police and metro will be  more effective than the current national set-up. "Our borders are porous. I’m not saying people must be locked up ... Those who come to the country legally must be helped, but we must make it impossible for people to enter the country illegally."