A wave of support for corporal punishment in schools followed the Western Cape education department’s confirmation on Thursday that it is investigating Paarl Boys’ High School. Facebook comments were summed up by Adam Vuropolis, who said: “I prefer reading about this than teachers who are getting sworn at and beaten up. Keep up the good work if this is true.” Jessica Shelver, the spokesperson for education MEC Debbie Schäfer, said the department had zero tolerance for corporal punishment and was investigating allegations against deputy headmaster Richard Visagie. She said Visagie was fined and given a final written warning in October 2018 after being found guilty of misconduct for reportedly hitting a pupil. “New complaints were received on the 23rd January 2019 from a doctor who was reportedly treating a learner that was assaulted,” said Shelver. However, the pupil’s parents had been reluctant to pursue the matter. News24 reported on Thursday that six sources, including a current parent and ex-pupils, had alleged that Paarl Boys’ High had a culture of corporal punishment, which was outlawed in 1996. The allegations were denied by principal Derek Swart and governing body chairperson Ritzema de la Bat, but one commentator on Twitter, Nazrana Hawa, said: “My brothers went through hell and back in that school so I’m inclined to believe this one.” Most Facebook pundits, however, supported the reinstatement of corporal punishment. Mzwandile Fihlani said: “Corporal punishment is what raised me to be the responsible and respectful man I am today.” Referring to Paarl Boys’ High’s high academic standards, Carel Kuun said: “It’s interesting how these schools that does ‘the unthinkable’ of hitting the children produces the best results in the ‘abused’ kids, during school as well as afterwards.” Yolandi Johnson added: “I wish government will bring corporal punishment back. Judging the way school kids behave these days it would be a good thing. We still had it when we were in school and we were not abused. We were disciplined and taught how to respect our teachers.” Patrick Muller said the alleged corporal punishment at Paarl Boys’ High was the reason it was such a good school, and Daniel Mpfumo said he supported the idea “within certain limits and parameters”. Lali Thirion Beukes said: “All of this started when a few on the backside was removed from schools. What will happen to these kids? They now run the schools, swear at teachers and even attack and murder teachers.” There were a few opposing voices, however, including Aletta Stander, who said: “All you can think of is violence. Stop violence WITH violence?” And Albert Geiger commented: “The discussion should not be if it works or not, it should be if it is legal or not. Teaching ‘discipline’ by breaking the law simply does not work.” But Nomphelo Goda said: “Our township schools still practise corporal punishment and we are fine with it as long as the government don’t know about it and ruin our children by this children’s rights nonsense.”