Bidvest Wits are slowly but surely pulling themselves out of the league title contention with their 2-0 loss to AmaZulu FC at King Zwelithini Stadium in Umlazi, Durban on Saturday night extending their winless streak to four games. In those four games Gavin Hunt’s team has only collected two points with two draws and  two losses while  in the process losing their position on top of the Absa Premiership table. The first 45 minutes of this encounter were marked by both clubs failing to take the half opportunities they created - Bongi Ntuli the main culprit for Usuthu and Wits defender also Sifiso Hlanti missing an easy chance towards the of the half. But Ntuli changed the complexion  of this match when he netted his fifth goal of the season with an easy tap in following  substitute Somila Ntsundwana’s fantastic cross on the right three minutes after the restart. As Wits were pressing  for the equaliser Zimbabwean midfielder Ovidy Karuru punished them following a counter-attack that ended with Ntsundwana again supplying a cross for Karuru to register his second of the season. The defeat for Wits, who ended the match with 10 men after their skipper Thulani Hlatshwayo was shown a red card two minutes from time for a foul on the super sub Ntsundwana, keeps them fourth on the table and still trailing leaders Orlando Pirates by two points with seven matches  remaining. For Usuthu, the victory comes as huge relief after suffering two defeats in their previous matches away to Pirates and Maritzburg United. Hunt will be concerned by his team’s run but the this defeat comes as no surprise as they came to this match having  collected only five points in five games. In this match the Clever Boys tried to make a comeback and the introduction of Elias Pelembe and former AmaZulu striker Lehlohonolo Majoro did see them pressing the home in the last 20 minutes. Credit should go to Usuthu defence which stood firm and stuck to their game plan against the barrage of attacks from their desperate visitors. Wits’s loss would come as huge relief to second placed Mamelodi Sundowns who now stand a chance to go three points clear at the top if they get full points away to Maritzburg on Tuesday night.