A movement of survivors of prostitution, Kwanele, will stage a protest outside the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Monday in solidarity with their fellow member Carmen Nan Lee, mother of slain escort Siam Lee, and all prostituted women in South Africa. "Enough is enough. We are here to demonstrate and speak against the ills of the system of prostitution. We have been following this case and supporting Siam’s mother since inception last year. We want justice for Siam Lee. "Justice for Siam is justice for all the prostituted women who have suffered all kinds of violence from pimps, brothel owners and buyers. We want all the men who buy women to know that it is not okay to buy women for sexual acts. Women are not commodities to be bought and sold,” said Mickey Meji, leader of Kwanele and advocacy manager at Cape Town-based non-profit organisation Embrace Dignity. Kwanele means enough is enough in Zulu. Lee, a Durban escort in her 20s, was held captive for more than 24 hours before she was bludgeoned to death and her body set alight in a secluded sugarcane field in New Hanover in central KwaZulu-Natal in January 2018. She was allegedly snatched by a businessman from a brothel. The 30-year-old businessman, Philani Ntuli, is now facing a raft of charges, including the kidnapping and murder of Lee, as well as the rape of another woman. Other incidents which have been highlighted by Kwanele include: As dusk fell that fateful Saturday, a man stopped and picked her up. Once she was in his car, there was no way out. A few hours later, she was found murdered and lay half naked in the sand, covered with branches and near a footpath close to Cape Town’s Macassar beach. Her legs had been spread apart, skirt pulled up and her jacket twisted around her neck and face. She was the 19th victim of the Cape’s infamous prostitute serial killer of that period. Trish, who was murdered on May 15 1996, was his last victim – and also his youngest. Kwanele has decided to stand in solidarity with Siam Lee’s mother and all the women who have died at the hands of men who had bought them for sexual acts. "We are tired of being physically abused, raped and murdered by buyers, brothel owners and pimps," said Meji. "Siam Lee is one of the many women who have been brutally killed by a sex buyer. Philani Ntuli is just one of many buyers who highlight the way prostituted women are treated on a daily basis." Meji said this case also highlighted an important message that this act had nothing to do with the fact that prostitution was illegal in South Africa but to do with the behaviours of men who buy women for sexual acts. "This shows that legalisation and full decriminalisation of prostitution will not make the sex trade safe for prostituted women," she said.