A former pupil of Mmametlhake Secondary School in Mpumalanga was shot in the leg after he allegedly attacked police officers at the school. Mpumalanga department of education spokesperson Jasper Zwane said the former pupil went to the school to see the principal. It is unclear when exactly this incident happened. "It is alleged that when he was told he could not see the principal, he became violent and started throwing bricks, destroying the school's windows. Police were called in to assist... the intruder attacked them until he was shot in the leg," Zwane said. The youth was arrested and taken to the Mmametlhake Hospital. A video recording of the incident has since gone viral on social media. WARNING: Graphic imagery not for sensitive viewers The 2.15min video, taken by someone inside a classroom, appears to show the attacker hurling bricks at the school's windows. Seconds later, a police van is seen speeding onto the school grounds but the brick-thrower seems undeterred. He shifts his focus from stoning the school building to now stoning the police van. As the officers try to alight from the vehicle, one of the bricks slams into the passenger side window, shattering it. The officers try to retreat and reverse but the brick-thrower continues to attack. People can be seen scattering in different directions as the attacker comes in their direction, chasing after the police van. Seemingly in a bid to try avoid him, the officer behind the wheel spins his vehicle around the attacker but his colleague is flung out of the vehicle through the passenger door. The officer lands on the ground and attempts to stand up, only to fall down over and over again. The brick-thrower heads in the fallen officer's direction, with a brick in hand. The other officers leap out of the vehicle and one opens fire as the assailant prepares to hurl the brick. About three gun shots can be heard as the man falls to the ground and stops moving. Another officer, armed with what seems like a rifle, moves close to the victim as police check on him.  All of a sudden, the officer kicks the man lying on the ground several times. The department will send a team to the school on Friday to investigate the circumstances and to provide counselling to the affected pupils and teachers.