He might stand just under 2m tall in his socks and boast bulging muscles. Yet Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson is not known for his physical strength, but rather for what a super-nice guy he is. Here are four series and movies to stream where you can appreciate his greatness. He’s a great actor who started out as a wrestler - but did you know Johnson first found stardom as a college footballer? Ballers follows an ex-footballer-turned-financial-manager, and those in-game montages of a young guy who looks like Johnson playing football really do show the former WWE Superstar wrestler – he played defensive tackle at the University of Miami, Florida, on a full scholarship and would have become a pro NFL footballer if he hadn’t been hit with career-ending injuries. Johnson has a lot more in common with his character, Spencer Strasmore, than just former football glory. Strasmore’s business has gone through heavenly highs and lows that make the bottom of the ocean look like the shallow end of the pool. And that too mirrors Johnson’s personal life. “I know what it’s like to owe a lot of people a lot of money and to have nothing. I lived that life. I know what it’s like to have money now too,” says the 47-year-old, who has been one of the world’s highest-paid actors since 2012, features on Time’s 100 most Influential People in the World lists and has an estimated net worth of more than $320m (R4.9bn). HBO’s Ballers is five seasons of sheer sporting and acting joy from Johnson and worth a watch - especially as you can stream the whole thing from start to finish on Showmax. If you already think Johnson is some sort of demigod, you’ll be as pleased as we are to see him as Hercules in this fantasy film that takes action to mythical proportions. The Rock’s larger-than-life performance is bolstered by a cast of minor deities – from Ian McShane and John Hurt to Rufus Sewell and Joseph Fiennes. In this documentary, Johnson follows young convicts to a brutal rehabilitation boot camp to help them turn their lives around. Three bodybuilders get in way over their heads when they decide to get into a little kidnapping and extortion on the side. Johnson plays the ripped softie in this action comedy directed by Michael Bay and co-starring Mark Wahlberg, Anthony Mackie, Tony Shalhoub, Ed Harris and Rebel Wilson. If you’re not a subscriber yet, you can sign up for a 14-day free trial. Thereafter, access to a ton of local and international series, movies and documentaries costs just R99 per month. If you’re a DStv Premium subscriber, Showmax is included in your subscription – just go to the website to sign up. DStv Compact and Compact Plus subscribers can add Showmax to their subscription for just R49 per month. This article was paid for by Showmax.