This past week of violence, intolerance and anarchy in SA forced the nation to reflect and did some damage to our reputation in the eyes of the rest of Africa. The Vrye Weekblad team tries to give context and answers, and asks whether the violence was part of a campaign against Cyril Ramaphosa's government, in this week's edition of Afrikaans digital weekly Vrye Weekblad. We need to look at what causes the xenophobia (or was is just plain criminality?), who the perpetrators are and why they are so violent. We need to ask why crime intelligence was seemingly caught off guard and why the cops seemed to be out of their depth. And the timing. Why did all this happen while the WEF was in town? But despite our conclusions and solutions, two facts are indisputable: the economy has to be yanked out of its downward spiral urgently so we can create jobs and stop poverty from spreading, and we need to reconsider our attitude towards migration. Experts we spoke to say we live in troubled times, and that frustration, desperation and hopelessness have become unreasonable anger. Many fingers point at politicians who fan the flames with their irresponsible utterings. It was a tough first week of September for SA. Our own Black September. Listen | What Police Minister General Bheki Cele plans to do about violent looting in Gauteng FREE TO READ – AMY'LEIGH | The saga around the kidnapping of six-year-old Amy-Leigh de Jager is getting stranger and stranger as more information about the crime comes to light - including that this is all about drugs. FREE TO READ – LITERARY PLUNDERING | Taking liberties with someone's manuscript, even after their death, is highly frowned upon. Deborah Steinmar looks at a recent case. PYLONS IN PERIL | Some of Eskom's pylons are slowly being stripped from the bottom up for scrap. Erika Gibson investigates these latest troubles for the power utility. FREE TO READ – YOU ARE NEVER TOO OLD FOR SEX | Marita van der Vyver writes that you only need your imagination to have good sex as you get older. SPECIAL OFFER | And last, not a story but a great offer – subscribe to Vrye Weekblad before September 15 and you could win a wine hamper worth more than R250. Only R10 for your first month!