Former spy boss Richard Mdluli allegedly used more than R300,000 from crime intelligence's secret service account for flights and accommodation for him and his family. This according to seasoned Hawks investigator Kobus Roelofse, who was testifying at the state capture inquiry on Tuesday. The use of state funds to pay for travel costs for Mdluli and his family as well as the families of other senior crime intelligence officers, is one of 11 investigations into the looting of the secret service account that Roelofse investigated. These investigations will form the bulk of his testimony. The account is normally used to pay informants, operate safe houses, purchase assets and cover the bills for covert operations. Roelofse said he was given the information through an affidavit by crime intelligence's Col Dhanajaya Naidoo in 2011. "On several occasions he [Naidoo] had to arrange for Mdluli, his wife and two children to fly to Johannesburg and back to Cape Town. "These visits were private  and paid for by the secret service account. It may be utilised to pay air tickets as far as it is for agents and informers conducting official crime intelligence business, but not for private matters," Roelofse said. The bookings were made via One Stop Travel & Tours and paid through a company - which Roelofse calls "Company X" - which crime intelligence uses as a face for the secret service account. He said more than R1m was paid from Company X between April 2010 and October 2011. Former crime intelligence chief financial officer Solomon Lazarus is also alleged to have used the secret service account to fund travel costs for his family and members of his church. "We did find that agents did actually travel but the majority of the funding was not used by an agent in his official funding. We are talking about family members and friends who made use of it," Roelofse said. Through his investigations, Roelofse said he found that Mdluli and his family benefited by about R306,000 in travel expenses, while Lazarus benefited to the tune of about R160,000. He also found that on one occasion, when Mdluli's children were flown between two cities, the books of crime intelligence recorded them as agents. His testimony is continuing.