A total of 21,022 people were murdered in South Africa between April 1 2018 and March 31 this year, while 52,420 were victims of sexual offences. This is an increase of 3.4% and 4.6% respectively. Shockingly, there were 736 murders committed by children. The weekend contributes 60% of the murders (Friday to Sunday). If you include Monday, that figure goes to 70%. These are some of the latest SAPS crime stats released in parliament on Thursday morning  briefing by national police commissioner General Khehla Sitole, SAPS statistics chief Major General Norman Sekhukhune and Police Minister Bheki Cele. "There is a very high number of people that are murdered by people they know," Cele commented. “Why do people behave like they are coming from moon on weekends?” Cele asked. He said they are seeking help from experts, including sociologists, in a bid to find answers to this question. There are other crimes that go beyond policing, Cele signalled. Referring to the case in Mpumalanga where a mother killed her four children, he said, "It’s classified as murder but we are looking at getting a new code for that. Because police can’t police that." All provinces have recorded increases when it comes to contact crimes. Nyanga station in the Western Cape leads when it comes to trio crimes. But Gauteng has 19 stations featuring in the top 30. Murder cases reported were highest in Nyanga (289), followed by Delft, Khayelitsha, Inanda, Philippi East, Mthatha, Umlazi, Harare in the Western Cape, Plessislaer and Gugulethu. There were 47 farm murders in 41 incidents. Attempted murder cases across SA increased by 4.1% to 1,898. A 23.1% decrease in cash-in-transit heists was recorded while a 1% increase was noted in aggravated robbery with 140,032 cases. Property-related crimes as a whole decreased by 12,804 (2.5%). Stock theft saw the biggest increase in this category (up by 2.9%). Most (5,098) of the more than 16,000 car hijackings that were reported in the year occurred in townships. More than 1,500 cars were hijacked in city centres, 110 on national highways, 97 in suburbs, and one at a port of entry. The most car hijackings were reported at Nyanga police station in the Western Cape. The statistics revealed that 12,857 drivers were threatened with a weapon of some kind, mostly a firearm. In 12 cases, a brick was used while in five other hijackings an axe was the weapon of choice. At least 351 drivers reported that hijackers had "knocked on the window or another part of the vehicle" to hijack them. In 14 cases, objects were thrown on the road as part of the modus operandi. In 51 cases, hijackers used a fake stop and go detour to target their victims. Looking at the weapons used in crimes, the SAPS data reveals that knives are most common (4,720), followed by unidentified sharp objects (1,552) while in 506 cases, a brick was used to attack the victim. Bottles, sticks, sjamboks and machetes were also used while in 68 cases, the weapon was fire/matches. Among the causes of murders were domestic violence (1,115 cases) and mob justice/vigilantism (789). Arguments/misunderstandings accounted for 1,727 cases, armed robbery (751), gang-related (1,120), illegal mining (62) and taxi violence (321). The Institute for Security Studies said the increase in armed robbery (by 1,668 cases to 140,032, up 1.2%) is the result of a rise in "street robbery". Other types of robbery such as cash-in-transit heists, hijackings and business robberies are down. However, almost 60% of all reported armed robberies take place in streets and other public places with 80,215 cases recorded in the year under review, the anti-crime watchdog organisation said. Street robbery has also increased consistently over the past seven years, with 39% more incidents than in 2011. To increase the effectiveness of policing, a good start would be to "clean out and strengthen crime intelligence – an urgent requirement to tackle criminal networks behind most robberies, and enable evidence-based policing," said the ISS. "The capacity of South Africa’s investigators and prosecutors also needs to be boosted. Specialised investigative units are needed at police stations with the highest number of murders and robberies." In addition, it said, staff shortages in the SAPS Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) and National Prosecuting Authority need to be addressed as a matter of urgency. Cele said the murder statistics that started being recorded since the start of the democratic dispensation were at around 31,000. It had been going down by 1,000 each financial year from then and even went down by 2,000 around 2010/11. It started going up again around 2012. “What happened from 2012/13 up? It’s a question we must answer.” “There were good practices that were dropped.” He says as grim as the murder statistic is for 2018/19, the increase in murders had been halved as compared to the previous financial year where murder had increased by 1,300. “We have halved the murder increase.” Cele said “women issues”, murder and commonly feared crimes like house robbery and house burglary remained serious challenges for the police. Last year Cele vowed to reduce the murder rate, saying heads would roll if the statistics increased. Asked on Thursday when and whose heads will roll, he backtracked, saying: “The heads can't roll because they are expected to shift back or reverse the stats. Allow their heads to reverse the situation, especially with murders”. Parliament's portfolio committee on police said policing should shift from being responsive to being more more preventive in order to curb crime. "This can be achieved through the intensification of collaboration with communities,” said the chairperson of the committee, Tina Joemat-Pettersson. MPs highlighted socio-economic factors that are leading to crimes - substance abuse and unemployment. “We have to accept that police alone cannot fight crime as they are at the far end of the cycle, and solutions must be directed towards the root causes of criminal behaviour,”  Joemat-Pettersson said.