We've all had those moments where you’re living your best life and want to save the memories but then the flash goes off. You’ve blinded half the people at the party and no amount of beauty filter will help you from looking like you’ve seen a ghost. It’s been rough out here, between the blurry night-time pixels and the price of Bonang’s “champagne,” but all of that is about to change - except the bubbles, you’re on your own with that one. In Paris last month, Huawei was flashing their receipts, and boldly showed side-by-side comparisons of what its new P30 series can flex next to the photos of the iPhone 10S Max and Samsung S10+ and it was drastic. Richard Yu, CEO of Huawei Technologies Consumer Business Group, smiled wide each time the shots of his competitors would show smudgy darkness only to become illuminated when taken with the Chinese company’s new premier device. He wore petty very well. The new P30 series sports what Huawei likes to call the Leica Quad Camera system comprising four back cameras: the iconic 40MP main camera, the new SuperSpectrum Sensor, a 20MP ultra-wide-angle camera; an 8MP telephoto camera and the new Huawei Time-of-Flight (TOF) camera. The system is all about giving you the best of those depth-of-field shots packed full of “bokeh” - that pretty blur vibe you get in high fashion shoots – to make you “the star” in any scenario. Each of these cameras can basically see in the dark, in a clean clear manner – you can see exactly how many drinks you had in the club and how much dancing to Beyoncé messed up your hair. What’s more, what you can see is in brighter and bolder colour. The new SuperSpectrum Sensor basically discards the age-old way of looking at digital colour by ditching the green pixels and serving up some “superior” yellow ones. The result allows for even more vivid imagery, so best you dress for the occasion. Your selfies will show you in all your contoured glory in full HDR thanks to a whopping 32MP front-view camera. Yu reports that the phone’s Super Portrait Mode is able to capture even tiny details, “down to the hair strands on a subject’s face,” and still manages to serve up with just the right combination of face detail and background blur for the ’gram. Now if you need to spy for a moment at the hot DJ, you can whip out that telephoto camera. Not only can it now digitally zoom 50 times closer to the object of affection but the phone cleans up the image so freshly. It is genuinely drastic how punchy the zoom is, to the point where you can even zoom in and see the craters of the moon. And since you’re zooming in, you may as well take a video, or even two at the same time. Dual-view function allows you to film a zoomed-in video and an ultra-wide video at the same time – something akin to your own private music video. Those instastories are going to be so fresh – and, well, in landscape mode, apparently. The recommended retail price for the Huawei P30 lite is R5,999, R13,999 for the P30 and R18,999 for the P30 Pro. This article was paid for by Huawei.