Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane has urged his players to keep their feet on the ground and stay calm despite the noise of their highly impressive 5-0 win over Al Ahly because a place in the Caf Champions League‚ semi-final has not been secured. The Brazilians enjoy a comfortable lead over the Egyptian giants from quarter-final‚ first leg that was played in Pretoria on Saturday and Mosimane said the Red Devils have the pedigree to turn the tables at the Suez Army Stadium on Saturday. “I am not a fool‚ I will keep my feet on the ground and make sure that the team stays calm and hopefully we proceed to the semis‚” he said. “This 5-0 win is a rare result and with regards to our performance we played proper football. They will be under pressure to score early but we are going to unleash speed on them with the likes of Phakamani Mahlambi and Lebohang Maboe hoping that we can score one goal from the break. We must make it difficult for them” “It is going to be difficult but we must try to fight fire with fire‚ I hope we keep the integrity‚ we protect this result and the work that we have done. We don’t have the guarantee‚ Bafana went there to play against Libya needing a point and they won. We should believe and trust in the way we play but we must double our efforts. If we lose we will do that because they were good but because of our attitude and mentally.” An embarrassed Al Ahly coach Martín Lasarte did not want to much about the game but congratulated Mosimane. “There is not much that can say about the match or the result but to congratulate Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane and his team. We feel ashamed with the result of this match but we will concentrate on the return match in Egypt‚” said Uruguayan Lasarte through an interpreter. Mosimane added that he has always believed that Sundowns have got what it takes to win the tournament and add the second star on their badge. “Maybe they want to prove a point sometimes. PSL is never like this‚ they know us and they make rainfall defence. But with regards to Al Ahly‚ I think they disrespect us because they are a big team and this was a surprise to them. It is about Sundowns and I thank the players‚ I have always believed that I will win the Champions League.” “When we played Lobi Stars from Nigeria‚ I said it is important that we keep the South African flag flying high. I told you about the game that Themba Zwane‚ Percy Tau and Sibusiso Vilakazi caused the damage in Nigeria with Bafana Bafana. When we played Ahli Benghazi‚ I told you it is important for Sundowns to keep the flag before Bafana Bafana played against Libya in the Cup of Nations. Sundowns must give confidence in terms of integrity because this is about the national agenda.”