Democratic Alliance KZN leader and the party's premier candidate Zwakele Mncwango is to be hauled before a disciplinary hearing on Wednesday for posting the cover page of a much-anticipated commission of inquiry report into violence on his Facebook page. The action  follows a complaint by KZN's ANC premier Willies Mchunu after the DA politician published a photo of the cover page of the Moerane Commission of Inquiry's report on his Facebook page before its release to the public in September last year. The commission‚ which cost taxpayers R15m‚ was set up by Mchunu to investigate a spate of killings in the province that were suspected to be politically motivated. It wrapped up its work in April last year after testimony from a range of organisations and individuals and the final report was handed to Mchunu in June before it was released to the public in September last year. Mncwango will make his second appearance on Wednesday before the KZN legislature's disciplinary committee hearing, headed by deputy speaker Meshack Radebe, in what the DA has described as a "kangaroo court" and "vendetta" against its leader. In a statement on Tuesday, the DA said that Mchunu’s complaint had led to charges of unauthorised publishing, broadcasting of proceedings, gross dereliction of duty and gross dishonesty. However, the party said it stood fully behind Mncwango against what it called "trumped-up charges". It also confirmed that Mncwango would attend the hearing and called on the media to demand access to the premier’s "kangaroo-court vendetta" against the DA KZN leader. "While the DA had requested that the first session of the hearing be opened to the media and the public — in the interest of transparency — this request was denied. We sincerely hope this ill-informed decision will be reversed tomorrow (Wednesday) and we encourage the media to demand access to this kangaroo court style hearing," said DA MP and deputy chief whip Hlanganani Gumbi. He said the DA stood by its belief that "this hearing is yet another case of gross misuse of public funds". The DA remained committed to fighting against such corruption "in the interests of the people of our province". Gumbi said the hearing was designed to remove Mncwango from the campaign trail ahead of the May 8 general elections. "The premier has allowed himself to be part of a show that is wasting public money instead of dealing with political killings. We’ve go no more sittings [of the legislature] between now and the end of the term, so what’s going to happen? The premier is just misusing public funds," he said. Mchunu's spokesman, Thami Ngidi, didn't immediately respond to queries.