City of Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba has warned South Africans who plan to vote for Cyril Ramaphosa as president in the upcoming general elections that within 18 to 24 months they will be asking for his predecessor, Jacob Zuma, to come back. Mashaba was addressing the media at Constitutional Hill in Braamfontein alongside DA leader Mmusi Maimane and his counterparts in other DA-led cities such as Cape town and Tshwane. All the aforementioned leaders blamed the ANC for fuelling protests for electioneering in DA-led municipalities. Maimane and Mashaba said the "ANC-sponsored" protests such as the Alex shutdown were endorsed by Ramaphosa whom they accused of promoting "criminality and cheap politicking". Mashaba went further to suggest that Ramaphosa was a dishonest leader unlike an honest Zuma who he replaced both at Luthuli House and the Union Buildings. "I warn you and I warn people of South Africa that come May 8, if Cyril Ramaphosa and the ANC must continue, I can assure you the wasted nine years of Jacob Zuma will be like a walk in the park," said Mashaba. "I can assure you 18 to 24 months' time, people of this country are going to ask Jacob Zuma to come back and the reason for that is because Jacob Zuma is an honest man. "Zuma is not a charmer who plays around with people's emotions. With Jacob Zuma we know he steals people's money and he does not hide it. So let people of this country of making that mistake…of trusting the ANC and Cyril Ramaphosa, in 18 to 24 months they will be saying 'Jacob Zuma please come back, we know you are an honest man'." Mashaba said he would be visiting Alexandra on Monday while he also vowed that he would reveal the names of ANC leaders who were involved in the "looting" of the R1bn earmarked for the renewal of the township. True to form, Mashaba did not miss out on the opportunity to take a dig at foreign nationals. He said the ANC government was engaged in issuing fraudulent IDs to foreign nationals who then access services such as housing using the fake documents. Said Mashaba: "It is a shame that we can have a government and a home affairs that is involved in the giving of fraudulent identity documents to foreign nationals. It has never happened anywhere before but in South Africa. "Government is involved in giving foreign nationals IDs instead of people of Alexandra benefiting from the Alex Renewal project, majority of the houses are given to people with fraudulent documentation. "Is Cyril Ramaphosa aware about this? If he is not aware, our forensic investigation will expose him shortly."