The answer to a youthful, healthy glow can be found by spending time outdoors, according to the recent Chanel and Aigner shows, where an odd placement of blush across the bridge of the nose, under the eyes, and centre of the cheeks, led to skin looking as if it had spent days basking in the sun or trudging through the icy snow. "The makeup was very fresh with a strong masculine touch in the groomed and defined brows. The girls were meant to look fresh, having been in a cold snowy day at the 'Chalet Gardénia'. The masculine-feminine vibe in the collection inspired the prominent brows in opposition to the super fresh cheeks," says Lucia Pica, global creative makeup and colour designer at Chanel. 1. Create a base of lightweight, sheer coverage that allows the skin's natural texture to come through by spot concealing as opposed to applying a full face of foundation. 2. Tap a full-coverage cream concealer where needed: under the eyes, sides of the mouth and nose, chin and on any other unwanted blemishes. 3. Define the brows by lightly filling in the natural shape with a brow powder. Wax and brush up the hairs to blend product in for a fluffy, natural finish. 4. Sculpt the face a bit by working a matte bronzer into the hollows of the cheeks and all over the eyelids to add dimension. Skip mascara completely. 5. Achieve a subtle flush of colour with a powder blush swept over the cheeks, starting from the area under the eyes and dragging across the nose bridge. 6. Need a more intense flush that also adds extra luminosity? Turn to a cream blush in a bright or deep pink shade and blend into the skin with the warmth of your fingers. This method translates extremely well on darker skin tones. "Complement the freshness of this look with Chance Eau Tendre's soft floral-fruity notes of jasmine absolute, quince, rose essence and white musk." 1. Revolution Conceal & Define Full Coverage Foundation R220 available at Clicks. 2. Bobbi Brown Dark Brow Kit R795. 3. Chanel Chance Eau Tendre EDP 100ml R2,290. 4. Smashbox Blendable Lip & Cheek Color in Fairfax Fuchsia R425.5. Chanel Joues Contraste in 440 Quintessence R725. 6. Sorbet Contour Me Contouring Blush Duo R190 available at Clicks.