National police commissioner General Khehla Sitole has called for calm while the police watchdog IPID investigates the death of protesters in Caledon. Conflicting reports surfaced on Thursday morning after a massive protest in the Western Cape farming town turned to tragedy, resulting in the death of two people and leaving another injured. The ANC election head in the province Ebrahim Rasool was quick to claim that the protesters were shot by police after they "marched peacefully" over service delivery grievances. However, Western Cape community safety MEC - and DA premier candidate Alan Winde said that reports from the scene indicated that the victims may have died as a result of a stampede when police dispersed the protesters. Sithole said that according to preliminary reports "it was during the policing of the protest action when police were dispersing the crowd that two protesters died". "In view of the allegations that the protesters were shot by police, the Independent Police Investigative Directorate has been called in to investigate this matter," said Sithole. "Therefore, it is our humble appeal that the community of Caledon remain calm and allow the investigation to take its course", he said. The Western Cape ANC claimed that the protesters were shot but in the same breath stated that "only an independent investigation will give credible answers". “We do not believe that people died in a stampede as it is being said now. We believe that they were shot and killed," said ANC Theewaterskloof MPL Maurencia Gillion in an official press release. They also attacked the DA in the province, who they said had blamed them for the protest in Caledon. Earlier on Thursday, Winde put out a statement blaming "political parties" for stoking the protest. "It is alleged that there are political parties who are at the forefront of these protests. These parties are willing to put lives on the line to advance their agendas," he said. "I see from video footage that these instigators are using children. We all have a right to protest and have processes to have our voices heard," said Winde. "Illegal action such as this puts the community and SAPS in direct confrontation. It also takes rights away from law-abiding citizens and has a huge effect on jobs," he said. ANC spokesperson Dennis Cruywagen alleged that firearms were "confiscated" from police and private security guards who were at the scene of the protest on Thursday. "IPID, which went to Caledon at the behest of Human Rights Commissioner Chris Nissen, as well as detectives led by Major-General Jeremy Vearey are investigating the shootings. The ANC welcomes these developments," he said. "According to evidence at our disposal, today’s march was a peaceful one. Police shot at the group as protesters were about to cross a bridge across the railway line," said Cruywagen.