The DA in eThekwini has written to KZN co-operative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube asking her to stop city bosses from increasing salaries and paying bonuses to officials. This follows recent approval by Durban's city council to allow city manager Sipho Nzuza to write to Dube-Ncube to request a 7% bonus for himself and his deputies - more than the 5.4% recommended by her department. This was revealed by DA caucus leader Nicole Graham during a media briefing outside the Durban city hall on Tuesday, where she outlined the damning results of an audit report by the city integrity and investigations unit (CIIU). Graham said an explosive report tabled in last week’s executive committee meeting revealed that: She told journalists that the council had also amended Dube-Ncube’s directive, in terms of section 139 (1)(a) of the constitution, to allow eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede to negotiate performance bonuses for accounting officers implicated in unauthorised, wasteful, fruitless and irregular expenditure. This had been rejected by the DA, she said. "Please don’t allow those officials to be paid bonuses. The city is not in good shape and those who are responsible must face the music," Graham urged in an e-mail sent to Dube-Ncube on Monday. She said despite rising employee costs, peaking at 30.5% of the budget in 2018, governance in the city remained in a shambles. "In short, there is seemingly #zeroconsequence for those implicated in wrongdoing," she wrote. Graham said Dube-Ncube had expressly requested the municipality not to raise the salaries of the city manager and his deputies beyond the gazetted 5.4%. "Despite this, the ANC in this council has driven a request to allow the city manager to write to the MEC and request a 7% increase," Graham said. "City managers can earn up to R3.9m a year and their deputies a whopping R3.1m a year. That’s clearly not good enough for the ANC in eThekwini, who want to give them even more money despite the state that the city is in." Graham added that a further Cogta department directive to Gumede had requested that those officials who were accounting officers and had presided over fruitless, irregular, unauthorised and wasteful expenditure were not paid performance bonuses. "This is a no-brainer to any rational person: performance bonuses are meant to reward good work and are not an automatic condition of employment. The ANC amended this to allow the mayor to negotiate the date of the condition with the MEC. Effectively, the ANC wants to make sure that the money still comes rolling in for staff who have their fingers in the till," she said. Graham said the report showed that the CIIU could investigate corruption and write reports "until it is blue in the face, but there is no political will or management direction" to implement and act on their findings. Joining her outside city hall, DA councillor Gavin Hegter called for Gumede to be dismissed. The eThekwini municipality did not respond to queries from TimesLIVE about salary increases and bonuses for staff, or on the results of the audit report.