When you step inside Olivia Babarczy's home you can't help but let out a deep sigh of relief. It might have something to do with the sounds of the ocean in the distance; the fresh, open spaces, or the refined mixture of natural elements and sumptuous textures. But it wasn't always like this. When interior designer Olivia and her husband, Julian, first came across the house on Sydney's Northern Beaches, it wasn't so perfect. "It was very much in need of some TLC, and I thought that it was just my kind of project," says Olivia. Prior to the Babarczy family moving in, the home had mainly been used as a holiday house and was fairly neglected. "We undertook a full renovation, gutting most rooms and replacing all of the rotten decks - nothing was left untouched," Olivia says. However, many of the home's original aesthetics were retained. "My rule of thumb with interior design and styling is to work within the boundaries of the architectural style of the house, otherwise the space may lose its identity," she says. This balance of old and new is testament to Olivia's experience as an interior designer. "I love hunting for items at flea markets in Europe during my travels," she says. "It's a great way to find pieces that you know won't be replicated elsewhere." And as for the new, she says: "I've found some little gems on the Northern Beaches. When it comes to furniture, I believe it's better to buy well and buy once, if the budget allows, as timeless pieces will last you a lifetime." 1. To fill the space, go for a sideboard or narrow console table that you can top with your favourite things, like books, candles, vases and family photographs. 2. Bring some life to your hallway with lush plants in cool pots. Here, a fiddle leaf fig works well. A vase of flowers or foliage would do the trick, too. 3. Hang art to add personality, colour and interest to the often neglected space. Try a large print like Olivia has done, or a trio of smaller works. 4. Depending on the size of your hallway, use an area rug or long, narrow runner to help define the space. It also feels lovely underfoot when passing by. - Bauersyndication.com.au/Magazinefeatures.co.za