A Supreme Court of Appeal ruling recently said a WhatsApp promise over Lotto money was not a binding contract — but this does not apply to all WhatsApp messages. Law firm Adams & Adams, in response to the SCA ruling, said the judgment did not mean such a message can never give rise to a binding legal obligation. The law firm said  the ruling needed to be read in context. “Even though the SCA found in the present case that the WhatsApp message was not a binding contract, it does not mean that a WhatsApp message can never give rise to binding legal obligations,” Adam & Adams said. “As a general rule, there are no prescribed formalities for the conclusion of a contract. All that is required is an offer and an acceptance, and consequently, consensus between the contracting parties. “It is also important to note that acceptance of an offer need not be expressed in words, as it can also be established by conduct, from which the inference of acceptance can logically be drawn.” In the case that was brought before the SCA, a woman had taken the father of her child to court, alleging that when she asked him about his Lotto winnings, the man had denied winning, saying instead that “If I get R20m I can give all my children R1m and remain with R13m ...” The woman later confirmed that the man had indeed won over R20m in the Lotto and took the matter to court, alleging a breach of contract. The high court in Polokwane had found the message to be binding and ordered the man to pay but the multimillionaire took the matter on appeal to the SCA where he won. The SCA said the father had spoken in a hypothetical context. The ruling read: “The message was sent in response to a statement that (the woman) knew that he had won the (Lotto) prize. It therefore constituted a denial that he had done so. The context thus strongly suggested that (the winner) never intended to agree to part with a portion of his winnings. “And in its terms, the message related what the appellant could possibly do in the hypothetical future event of him receiving R20m. It set out what the appellant might do if he received R20m.” Nevertheless, Adams & Adams warned individuals not to commit themselves via text messages.