Crisis-riddled Cricket South Africa has been hit by another major setback, with the immediate resignation of independent board member Iqbal Khan on Wednesday evening. Khan, who has served on the CSA board as an independent member since 2012, is the second independent board member to resign this week after Professor Shirley Zinn quit the embattled organisation on Monday. CSA president Chris Nenzani confirmed to TimesLIVE that he had received Khan’s resignation and that he would inform the board. “That’s true and I still have to send it to the board. I have received it this evening,” Nenzani said on Wednesday. In the letter to Nenzani, Khan said he could no longer be party to an organisation that was ruining the game, and could no longer be held accountable for the misconduct of the chief executive officer Thabang Moroe, whom he has blamed for the majority of the issues that have beset the embattled organisation. Khan listed a number of reasons for his exit, with the experienced director saying the revoking of media accreditation of five journalists was "certainly unconstitutional and illegal". The other issues of concern for Khan were: Another straw that broke the camels back for Khan was the rescheduling of an urgent board meeting from Tuesday to Saturday. This resignation has thrown CSA into more turmoil as the tailspin started by the revoking of the accreditation of five journalists on Sunday has led to the organisation coming apart at the seams this week. “In my humble view, the deep crisis that cricket finds itself in cannot wait for a board meeting to be held on Saturday. I was thus most surprised and deeply disappointed that a board meeting scheduled for last night [Tuesday] failed to materialise. Surely for a board meeting to be convened, we do not physically have to be in the same place. We have on numerous occasions convened board meetings by teleconference,” Khan said. “The criticism in the media and by the public who love and support cricket, has reached such a crescendo, that I can no longer be deaf to the cries of immediate changes at CSA board level. Before Professor Shirley Zinn resigned, I still maintained I would give things a chance and wait until Saturday for us to address the crisis we find ourselves in. "I seriously doubt however that you and/or the board is capable of doing so and in the circumstances, I have reached the only conclusion, and that is I must resign my position on the board as well as my position as chairperson of the CSA finance committee," Khan wrote.