If mineral resources and energy minister Gwede Mantashe had political will and a sense of urgency, he could have quickly signed a few documents and SA would not have been powerless this week. Monday's stage 6 load-shedding lasted for only a few hours before we went back to stage 4, but it sent shock waves through the economy and citizens that will reverberate for a long time to come. South Africans looked into the abyss and saw that this ship was sinking. It was the worst week in President Cyril Ramaphosa's political career. Even his most loyal supporters are no longer buying his excuses. He is the president, not just a bystander. He is the man who promised us a New Dawn. He was supposed to be the modern Moses who would lead us from the Jacob Zuma desert. Explanations about wet coal due to the rain were on the table to explain the mess. We've been hearing that since 2014. On Monday, Ramaphosa was still bragging in his weekly letter about how impressive Medupi is, and just a few hours later a conveyor belt apparently broke and the power station ground to a halt. Then we had stage 6, which meant we had lost 6,000 megawatt, and Ramaphosa had to rush back from Egypt to tell us how shocked he was and that sabotage was responsible for some of the mess. Someone at Eskom allegedly switched off an instrument that rendered the steam kettles useless. Read all about it in this week's edition of Afrikaans digital weekly Vrye Weekblad. Government and Eskom's credibility is at an all-time low. Nobody would be surprised if we were suddenly informed that stage 7 or stage 8 (12 hours of load-shedding per day) is implemented. The economy shrunk by 0,6% in the third quarter, and this week's closing or partial closing of mines and factories due to blackouts was catastrophic. A downgrade to junk status in March and more job losses now seem unavoidable, unless a miracle happens. We now know that Ramaphosa is no Superman. Not even a distant cousin of the superhero, in fact. FREE TO READ - 4 DAYS A WEEK | One of government's hardest challenges in 2020 will be to cut the state's huge wage bill without causing nationwide strikes and increasing joblessness and poverty. So how about switching to a four-day work week, asks Max du Preez. AN ISIS IN OUR BACK YARD | Northern Mozambique is caught up in a spiral of increasingly sophisticated attacks by extremists on civilians and protection forces. FREE TO READ - SEO FAIL | In the 1800s, government entities were part of the process of building the state, but now they have become the feeding troughs for the corrupt, writes Ismail Lagardien. RELAX, WATCH TV! | Use your festive break productively by catching up on these TV shows, Albertus van Wyk suggests. FREE TO READ - KRIMIS FOR XMAS | Our local crime writers had a good year. Bettina Wyngaard has a few suggestions for your festive reading.