Pitso Mosimane has brushed off suggestions that Mamelodi Sundowns' highly anticipated top-of-the-table clash against leaders Bidvest Wits on Saturday could decide the destiny of the league title. The two teams go into this weekend’s vitally important league encounter with the Students sitting at the summit on 37 points while the Brazilians have 35. But Sundowns have two games in hand. “I don’t think the game on Saturday will determine the championship because there is still a long way to go‚” said Mosimane‚ adding that even a draw would suffice for them away from home. “Obviously we want to go there and win the match to boost our position on the log‚ but even if we don’t win it's still okay. "The most important thing is we don’t lose. "There you will have to play proper chess and don’t be emotional because if you are emotional you will lose.” Sundowns dropped two points at home on Tuesday after goalkeeper Denis Onyango committed a clanger that led to Polokwane City’s equalizer. But the Brazilians retained second spot after Orlando Pirates’ 1-0 defeat to SuperSport United on Wednesday. The draw with Polokwane City cost Sundowns an opportunity to go level with Wits at the top of the table. “We are sitting nice on the table and it is a nice position to be at‚" Mosimane said. "I can’t pretend that we didn’t want to win against Polokwane City at home but it is okay because pressure is on everybody. "I don’t think we will win all our remaining games and I don’t know if there is anybody in this league who is going to win all their remaining games. “The draw against Polokwane is not a crisis. We are just missing the edge but there are many games left in the season and you know what is going to happen at the end. "You see what is happening with Manchester City and Liverpool in England‚ it is a nice race to the finishing line. This weekend Liverpool draws and people say they have lost it but City bounce back the next weekend and the picture changes. To get all the three points against fellow title challengers‚ Mosimane is going to rely on his attackers Themba Zwane‚ Gaston Sirino‚ Emiliano Tade‚ who started for the first time in the league against Polokwane City‚ and Lebohang Maboe. It will not easy for them as Wits coach Gavin Hunt has a tight defence that is marshaled by Thulani Hlatshwayo and includes the experience of Vuyo Mere‚ Robyn Johannes and Sifiso Hlanti.