An unsuspecting Durban motorist is still reeling after a pedestrian walked up to her car, stuck his hand through her open window and snatched her wig. Nombeko Madiba was stationary in her car, waiting for a traffic light to change in peak hour afternoon traffic on the M4 bridge on Tuesday when the man struck. Footage of the outrageous theft was captured on a dashcam belonging to Charlene Oberholzer Cross, who was in the car behind Madiba. Madiba told TimesLIVE on Thursday that she had been left severely traumatised by the incident and had been booked off from work. The administration officer said she was waiting for the traffic light to change when the man approached her. "I was so shocked that I couldn't even react," Madiba said. She said the 50cm long wig - which retails for about R4,000 - was a gift from her sister who works in a salon. "I have been driving around for about two years now and this is the first time I was attacked like this. I am left with a bruise on my head and even now I am still shocked." Cross, who was also on her way home said she was "horrified" when she witnessed the theft right in front of her. "I got the dashcam because six months ago, from my car, I witnessed a smash-and-grab and then two accidents. My route takes me along some pretty dodgy areas, so I thought maybe I should buy a dashcam. "It was about 4.50pm on Tuesday and we were in traffic on our way home, when I saw this guy walk up to the car in front of me. I don't know how he spotted the woman or that her window was slightly open, but the next thing he pushed his hand inside and with such force, pulled out her wig and then went off." She said there was a policeman in a bakkie a few cars behind them, who gave chase. However, the thief managed to get away. "Traffic started flowing and we got onto the freeway and I flashed Nombeko to pull over. Eventually she did and when I got to her, she was shaking. I checked if she was okay, took her number and put my number on her phone. I told her I had footage of the incident and that she could call me." She said Madiba called her later that night, still in shock, but also still sore. "I hope that sharing this video helps create awareness in motorists that they need to be careful when they are on the roads. Buckle up, don't have your windows open and be safe, especially women. There is not much women could do in a situation like that, especially if the man is armed. " This was the second incident of wig snatching reported this week. A woman who was walking in Cape Town was attacked by a man who robbed her of her wig before making his escape in a waiting car. KZN police spokesman Captain Nqobile Gwala said such cases were very rare, however they appealed to victims to report them to the police. - Additional reporting by Suthentira Govender