After initially being accused of not speaking out about important issues, following the death of  Thoriso Themane over the weekend, celebs have added their voice to the calls for justice. As reported by TimesLIVE, at least one school pupil was implicated in the killing of the man whose body was found dumped in Flora Park, Polokwane. The Limpopo education department said on Tuesday it was working with police to investigate the incident. Videos of the alleged murder were shared on social media this week. In one, a boy in school uniform is asked if he feels good about killing a person. The boy says yes, explaining that he knows that nothing will happen to him. The videos have sparked outrage among social media users and have lead to calls for justice. While people encouraged each other to share the message #JusticeForThoriso, they also criticised local celebs who they claimed would not join the movement or speak out on the issue. A few Twitter users added that celebrities only engaged with fans when they needed to find their missing cars or wanted to promote their new projects. Rapper Cassper Nyovest responded to the criticism head-on. He then recounted an experience where a friend of his was murdered but the boy responsible "walked free" because his mother was a cop. "Never been a violent dude. Grew up around it. Never been my vibe. One of my friends by the name of Itumeleng Mpedi was killed trying to stop a fight and the killer walked free cause the mom was a cop. It really happens in this country and that boy knows it. #JusticeForThoriso." Other celebs also responded to the videos, sharing their shock and disgust. TV and radio personality Hulisani Ravele said "we are a society in moral crisis", while actress Zenande Mfenyana said we need the Lord to intervene. Meanwhile, an online petition has been started to get the Department of Justice to intervene in the matter. It has gained more than 17,000 signatures in a little over 14 hours. "We want justice for Thoriso. We want the boy who killed him to get arrested and serve his time in jail," the petition reads in part.