Former president Jacob Zuma’s home municipality is about to be manager-less following a high court ruling on Thursday. The KwaZulu-Natal cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) department went to court to have Philemon Philani Sibiya removed as manager of the Nkandla municipality for not having the legally required experience. The court also ordered that Langelihle Siphiwokukle Jili be removed as municipal manager of the Mthonjaneni municipality for the same reason. Cogta MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube welcomed the ruling. According to the judgment, which dealt with both matters, the Nkandla council approved Sibiya’s appointment on January 24 2017 – but almost immediately his lack of experience was questioned and demands made for his appointment to be nullified. In a judgment handed down in the high court in Pietermaritzburg on Thursday, Judge Piet Koen noted that, according to the Local Government: Municipal Systems Act, a senior municipal manager must have at least five years’ management experience. This is unless the Cogta minister allows for this requirement to be waived. According to the court papers, Sibiya fell way short of this requirement. He had just 13 months’ experience. Koen noted that within three weeks of the Nkandla council telling the KZN Cogta department of Sibiya’s appointment, it had already begun to question what had happened. A timeline presented showed that: The provincial department then lodged their case to have Sibiya removed on May 11 2018. "[Sibiya] had in the interim assumed and continued in office as municipal manager performing the functions of municipal manager," the judgment noted. Nine months later, Koen ruled that Sibiya must vacate his office. A similar version of events occurred in Jili’s case, although he had even less experience – only four months, according to the court papers. Despite ruling that both appointments were null and void, Koen said that it must be effective from the date of his judgment and not retrospectively. He said that if it was backdated to Sibiya’s appointment, many of the administrative decisions made by Sibiya and Jili would have to be set aside, which could "throw the administration…into disarray". Dube-Ncube hailed the judgment as a victory for good and ethical governance in municipalities. "This judgment once again assists us in our journey to ensure that those who serve at the coalface of service delivery are competent and capable people," she said in a statement.