AKA caused a massive meltdown when he rocked up at Wits University to bless the SRC humanitarian with a cool R100k and went all Oprah-like with hundreds of MacDonalds meals. Taking to social media, Supa Mega explained where he was coming from with his aid to students. "I’ve been following the saga unfolding at Wits and I feel like something needs to be done for these kids. These are the very same people we ask for support from when we as public figures need something, yet our indifference and silence in times like these is deafening." On Monday, the rapper posted snaps of himself and his team handing out food at the university and a message thereafter about his motive. "The goal in life is to be a person of substance. Take away the cars, the face beat, the hair, the outfits, the constant Instagram posting ... minus all that ... what and who are these people really?" The rapper said he hoped his fellow celebs and other people in a position to help would not hesitate to do so because the government was never going to be able to give all the answers. He implored people to lend a helping hand. "I think we need to recognize that the government or the institutions will not have all the answers and that it’s up to us to help each other... especially people in positions like mine. I hope this will make other celebrities, private citizens and leaders stop and think about what we can do to help these young people." AKA also felt it was necessary to mention that he was helping out of his personal capacity and that his assistance was not political in the least. He said social media revolutions needed to sometimes take a back seat to accommodate real-life action and that is what he was doing. "This is not a political initiative, this is about demonstrating that we are the only ones who can find solutions for our own problems. Whatever our political affiliation, let’s come together for the students ... Get off your Instagram, give the hashtags a break and let’s actually do something." See some of the snaps below.