Hollywood's biggest stars strutted their stuff on the Oscars red carpet Sunday, and a few trends emerged: old-school glamour, metallic gowns, lots of pink ... and one stunning gown on a man. Here is a look at some of the top looks from Tinseltown's biggest night: READY FOR THEIR CLOSE-UP The top nominees on Sunday night arrived on the red carpet looking fierce. Glenn Close, who has swept the prizes this awards season ahead of Oscars night, was hoping to win her first Best Actress Academy Award for her amazing work in The Wife. For her possible moment in the sun, Close opted for a glittering gold long-sleeved Carolina Herrera gown and marching cape. "I always try to keep my expectations low," Close told E! television, revealing that her gown weighs 19kg. Regina King, who won the Best Supporting Actress prize for her role in If Beale Street Could Talk, turned heads in a strapless white gown with delicate beading, a long train — and a very high leg slit. She told E! on the red carpet that she chose to wear Oscar de la Renta because her film represented the "fabric of America," as did the designer. Lady Gaga, a double nominee for Best Actress and Best Original Song for A Star Is Born, oozed Hollywood glamour in a strapless black Alexander McQueen gown with elbow-length gloves, her hair swept up in an elegant twist. Shades of pink were red hot on the red carpet. Crazy Rich Asians star Gemma Chan stunned in a billowing sleeveless Valentino gown in a vibrant neon shade of pink with a high ruffled collar — and pockets. Angela Bassett (Black Panther) slayed in a one-shouldered Reem Acra gown with a bold slit that hugged her curves, and finished the look with a jewel box of a clutch. Grammy-winning country singer Kacey Musgraves, who presented an award on Sunday, and actresses Linda Cardellini (Green Book) and Helen Mirren all went for oodles of romantic pink tulle. Even home organising guru Marie Kondo — she who sparks joy for millions — hit the red carpet in a joyful pink dress. And Aquaman star Jason Momoa went for a pink tux with black lapels. This awards season, Hollywood's leading men came into their own on the red carpet, turning heads with bold colors, floral prints and even in-your-face harnesses (we're looking at you, Timothee Chalamet). Veteran director Spike Lee, nominated for the first time for Best Director and Best Picture for his race drama BlacKkKlansman, rocked the purple once again, as he did at the Golden Globes and Baftas. On his hands: brass knuckle rings spelling out LOVE and HATE. Actor Stephan James, the star of If Beale Street Could Talk, went for a three-piece red velvet Etro suit, while Best Supporting Actor nominee Richard E. Grant (Can You Ever Forgive Me?) chose a burgundy dinner jacket with black lapels. Actor/singer Billy Porter wowed the crowd with a Christian Siriano black velvet tuxedo gown. Yes, you read that right. Respect. Of course, the red carpet featured its share of gorgeous princess gowns, but the women of Tinseltown also showed that they can rock a suit just as well as the men. Best Actress nominee Melissa McCarthy paired black trousers with a white blouse (plunging neckline, of course) featuring a regal floor-length white cape. Awkwafina (Crazy Rich Asians), who presented an award, donned a sparkly pale purple pantsuit from DSquared, the blouse sealed with a floppy pussy bow. Comedian Amy Poehler went for a classic black tux look as did young actress Elsie Fisher (Eighth Grade).