DA Gauteng premier candidate Solly Msimanga believes the turnout at the party’s manifesto launch is symbolic of its growth. Msimanga said filling the 20,000-capacity Rand Stadium, south of Johannesburg, was evidence of the official opposition's "great growth". "For someone who has been in the DA for a very long time, this for me is something that makes me emotional because I remember a time when we couldn't even fill a small hall. "Now we are talking about going into stadiums, having activists in all wards and constituency meetings where hundreds of people attend,” he said. Msimanga said the party's decision to launch its manifesto in the economic hub of the country was a means of showing the people of South Africa how serious the DA was about winning the strategic province. "The next battlefield is Gauteng and we are serious contenders because this province controls most of the economy of the country. "Now we are saying if we want to talk about job creation, attracting investment, Gauteng is where we need to be making serious strides," Msimanga explained. Despite the party being criticised for its "secure our borders" stance that some have labelled as xenophobic, Msimanga said it was about the needs of undocumented immigrants and the capacity of government to provide services. "We are not saying (immigrants) are the problem but our systems are weak and we need to correct that in order to know who is in the country and how they can contribute with their skills" "I have engaged with some (immigrants) and they want to be here legally, but they are complaining of having no money to bribe officials for things like permits," he said. Msimanga said the DA's manifesto would be a proposal to the people of South Africa that included anti-corruption, professional and honest policing and creation of jobs. "An economic upliftment of our people, creating a job in every home by ensuring that we attract investment because it is the job of government to create a conducive environment for investors to come to South Africa so that we can create jobs," he added.