The band Fokof Polisiekar, originally from Bellville in the Cape, have decided to combine their talents and open a bar in vibey Hatfield, Pretoria. It's not their first foray into the liquor industry having launched their own range of craft beers in 2014 - and four years on - the recently opened Fokof Bar has taken off like one of their many hits. Finding my way upstairs on my first visit is a visual feast - floor to ceiling pictures, newspaper clippings, illustrations of the band that force one to stop and soak up the memorabilia of a band that started nearly 15 years ago. The interior can only be described as a home where the space is filled with goetekies, that descriptive Afrikaans word for bits and pieces, of a bygone era. The vibe of this eclectic place is accurately captured in the decor - old paintings, tapestry, house plants and old wall clocks that come straight from a time where rebellion had been frowned upon and suburban life the dream. Yet all of these elements have been reused or modified. Old lamp shades hang over the counter, a smooth wooden bar, with cushioned bar chairs to enjoy your on-tap house beer - Fokof Lager. Adding to the vintage-rocker aesthetic are the diner-like leather booths and mismatched dining chairs reminiscent of ouma's dining room. Complete with a living room couch and coffee table set straight out of the 1970s, covered in faded red velvet, the main restaurant/bar area overlooks busy Lynwood Road and a park. There's an area where the roof opens up and garden tables and chairs are littered under the zinc shed that lines the walls. In true Fokof Polisiekar style, rock music fills the background and cynically motivating words from the band such as "Dis onredelik en dan is dit verby", line the walls here and there. It offers great service and delicious food. Our order arrived within minutes. The burgers - beef, chicken and vegetarian (R80 with chips) - were mouthwatering and simple. No need for sauce or spice, everything on the plate had been cooked to perfection, right down to the fresh buns. Most items are what you'd expect on a bar menu - cheese & onion samosas, grilled chicken drums. For hungry okes the T-bone served hot or not is a favourite. So are the boerie rolls and chicken schnitzels and a couple of sides to choose from. The Fokof Bar has an atmosphere of lively culture, fusing two opposites - crazy rocker life and conservative traditions. Have a lekker jol with pals and find yourself becoming part of Afrikaans rock culture and loving it! PS. Although you can enjoy their music, live performances are on selected dates.