Before we relive our favourite moments from the reality series that showed women everywhere that it is possible to meet The One on late-night television, let’s get reacquainted with the Bachelorettes. We’ve lived through their heartache and joy, witnessed the cat fights and the forming of new friendships, and through it all, we’ve rooted for love to come out on top. Now you can stream The Biggest Bachelorette Reunion in Bachelor History Ever! on DStv Now. But before we do, do you remember the women who were willing to put their hearts on the line to meet The One? Trista Rehn (aka the Godmother of The Bachelorette) was the first woman to step into the spotlight, after striking out on season one of The Bachelor. The Bachelorette proved it is possible to find true love on screen as Trista and the “winner”, Ryan Sutter, married in 2003 and now are living happily ever after with their two children. This Canadian interior designer competed for the aforementioned hot pop, Jason, and went on to become the Bachelorette when she didn’t win. Sadly, her relationship with Ed Swiderski (the finalist of her season) didn’t last either. But Jillian soon found her happily-ever-after: she and fiancé Justin Pasutto have been together for six years and have two children together. Ashley Hebert and JP Rosenbaum are another Bachelorette success story. One televised wedding and two children later, they are still going strong after almost seven years of marriage. Last year they opted to renew their vows on the beach in Aruba away from the TV cameras. The Southern belle came close to walking down the aisle twice through The Bachelor – first by making it to the end of Brad’s second stint on The Bachelor, and then by taking the reins herself in The Bachelorette. Emily was led to take this road to love after her Nascar driver fiancé tragically died in a plane crash. Despite being three times unlucky in love, Emily eventually did find her man – and right under her nose. Husband Tyler Johnson is from her hometown. Desiree’s Bachelorette journey had us in tears when we witnessed Brooks Forester tell his family that he wasn’t in love with Des. This after knowing she had told Chris Harrison that she was ready to send everyone else packing because she knew Brooks is The One. Fortunately, she didn’t, because after Brooks broke her heart, Des decided to give another contestant, Chris Siegfried, a go and the two married in 2015. After two attempts to find love in Bachelor world, Andi is still single and happily mingling, it appears. She chose to leave Juan Pablo’s season of The Bachelor and ended her engagement with Josh Murray after The Bachelorette. Since then, Andi has written two books. The first, It’s Not Okay, details her relationship with Josh and the second, Single State of Mind, is about her Sex and the City-esque life in the Big Apple. After “losing” to Lauren Bushnell in Ben Higgins’s season of The Bachelor, real estate developer JoJo became season 12’s Bachelorette. Happily, she is still with her “winner” Jordan Rodgers. The two return to reality TV this year in Cash Pad, a real estate series that shows homeowners how to turn their property into a rental. The fact that Rachel became the first African American Bachelorette is a testament to how slowly the world changes – she took on the role only two years ago. Rachel and Bryan Abasolo (who won her heart) have announced that they’re marrying in August this year in the Caribbean. Stream more of The Bachelor on DStv Now and Showmax. This article was paid for by DStv Now.