Last year was a tough financial year for many South Africans. With VAT, petrol price increases, Eskom tariff hikes and rising inflation, it seems everything is going up, except salaries. It's no surprise that many full-time employees are turning to side hustles to stretch their household budgets. On Gumtree alone, there are more than 100,000 entrepreneurs making extra cash. “A side hustle is any job or source of income you may have aside from your day job,” says Estelle Nagel, marketing manager for Gumtree South Africa. “You can do this remotely, in the evenings or over weekends.” Some have even turned their side hustle into their full-time gig. “A long-standing client of ours, Eco Furniture and Design, started selling baby furniture from their garage, then a container, then a small factory. Today, they have three factories and have employed more than 200 people. “Lamla Princess Gqolodashe reached out to us via Facebook. She was only 20 years old when she started selling household appliances on Gumtree for extra cash and within a year, she employed two staff members and has expanded her business to include party hiring,” says Nagel. You don't need much to start side hustling – not even an original idea. “Play to your strengths. Firstly, I would look at your unique skill set and resources, and think about how you can apply it. If you are the mom who always throws the best birthday parties for her kids, you can use that skill to work as a party planner or caterer. “If you have a car and a drivers' licence, you can apply for a professional driving permit and start providing a shuttle service, taking people to the airport or even collecting kids from school. We’ve also seen people with green fingers who sell plants online, or work as a mobile hairdresser or manicurist. You can create an ad for free and start hustling right away,” says Nagel. Some of the most popular jobs include: Nagel emphasises that it is crucial to discuss your side-hustling plans with your employer. “They may have internal policies that do not allow for additional employment without written permission. Using company resources (including copiers, vehicles, email or computers) or company time to run your side hustle will also likely be frowned on, so make sure to keep your gigs separate.” You can find your side hustle on Gumtree by applying directly, posting a free ad on the general site or in the job seeker category. This article was paid for by Gumtree.