Fifteen plus hours on a plane is a lot of time to kill and, as great as the in-flight entertainment is, sometimes you need something more exciting to do to pass the time. So why not pack your very own mini bar kit  — with an emphasis on mini — and mix up some of your favourite cocktails mid-flight? With a tiny bit of planning, five minutes of kitchen prep and A LOT of charm, it's entirely possible to be a mile-high mixologist — we did the fieldwork to prove it. We managed to mix up a classic mojito, michelada (Mexican bloody mary), old fashioned and even a fancy G&T on a flight between Joburg and Paris. What did we need the charm for? For the air hostess, of course. You're going to be a fairly demanding passenger with all your requests from the on-board drinks trolley. WHAT YOU'LL NEED: 1 lime 1 orange Tiny plastic containers with lids Fresh mint leaves Celery tops Bitters Tiny empty bottle A bottle of Tabasco sauce Cut the limes and oranges into skinny wedges and pack them in separate containers so as to not mix up the flavours. Make sure to capture all the stray bits of juice; you’re going need it later. Bruise the mint leaves to release their scent and pack them in the same container as the celery tops to save space. Decant some bitters into the tiny empty bottle, you only need a few drops so don’t get too heavy handed. Put all of the above, along with a bottle of Tabasco sauce, in a plastic ziploc bag to make going through security fool-proof. Talk about a party of one, nothing says laid back (albeit reclined) quite like a mojito. You’re not always going to have the perfect provisions on board a flight, in this case we were given dark rum and Perrier instead of soda water, neither of which is ideal, but by using extra lime juice and tad more sugar we got more than favourable results. You will need: From the air hostess: Plastic cup Ice Sugar Coffee Stirrer Rum Soda water From your mini bar kit: Lime wedges Mint leaves Method: We're sure you’ve made the most basic of versions of a bloody mary on a plane at some point, but we assure you going the extra mile of adding orange juice and beer makes this classic cocktails astoundingly better. You will need: From the air hostess: Plastic cup Tomato juice Beer Vodka or Tequila Salt and pepper Coffee Stirrer From your mini bar kit: Orange wedges Tabasco sauce Celery tops Method: The simplest cocktail of the lot, but by far the most fashionable, the old fashioned is making a mighty comeback across the globe, so you may as well enjoy it while you cross it. You will need: From the air hostess: Plastic cup Still water Sugar Coffee stirrer Ice Rum, bourbon or whiskey From your mini bar kit: Bitters Orange wedges Method: Yes, yes, we know a G&T is literally just gin and tonic and anyone can pull this off on a plane with zero effort, but you have hours and hours to kill, so why not be fancy about it and give those Bree Street kids a run for their money. It’s a proven fact that planes dulls your taste buds and the pepper in this cocktail is there to bring out the flavours of the gin, a neat trick that works at any altitude. You will need: From the air hostess: Plastic cup Black tea Gin Ice Tonic Pepper From your mini bar kit: Orange wedges Mint Method: • We would like to thank the staff of Air France flight AF0995 from Joburg to Paris for their many cups of ice, sugar packets etc, and most of all for their patience. • This article is adapted from one published on Business Day's Wanted. Read the original article here. To get the best in luxury lifestyle news, visit wantedonline.co.za