We loved Hydra Beauty Micro-Liquid Essence and rated it high on our list of winter skin-care saviours. Now Chanel has added another member to the Hydra Beauty family that is sure to appeal to lovers of silky cream textures that are lightweight and hydrating. Called Hydra Beauty Camellia Water Cream, it contains Coco Chanel’s favourite flower as well as blue ginger and hyaluronic acid, which help to draw moisture into the skin, plump up fine lines and bolster the skin’s defences. First impressions: This is more than a facial; it’s a thirst quencher for dehydrated skin that targets fine lines, wrinkles, lack of elasticity and radiance. The process: This treatment gives you the ultimate sense of wellbeing with a sensorial pre-relaxation phase that consists of deeply inhaling essential oils from the therapist’s palms, followed by a light massage to loosen the spine and lower back. The face is then cleansed, toned and prepped with an enzymatic exfoliating gel that is left on for five minutes. After that, a restructuring serum is applied, which signals the beginning of a series of three mask applications with relaxing neck and shoulder massages in between. An intense hydration gel mask, which feels super cool on the skin, is massaged and left on for eight minutes. Then a modelling mask is applied and left on for 15 minutes and, lastly, a peel-off plumping mask, applied as a thick gel, is left on the skin for 15 minutes. You should enjoy a scalp massage at this point. Our beauty ed's verdict: If you ever wanted to know what it’s like to have a complexion that looks younger, luminous and refreshed, all while makeup-free, then book yourself in for this treatment immediately. My skin looked brighter, my dark spots were less noticeable and the after-glow is unreal. I recommend this facial all through winter, after long-haul flights and before a special occasion. Where and how much: R850 for 60 minutes at Fairlawns Boutique Hotel & Spa in Joburg. Japanese beauty, also known as J-beauty, has been on a steady rise since the Korean beauty boom took the world by storm. Now the launch of the Ruhaku brand on our shores thrusts Japanese beauty into the spotlight with the first organic, paraben-free, cruelty-free skin-care range from Okinawa, Japan. The product formulations contain powerful plant antioxidants unique to Okinawa, an island known for the high life expectancy of its inhabitants despite its strong UV radiation, harsh sea breeze and an environment that is hostile to plant growing. The range is a display-worthy collection of skin repairing and hydrating products comprising a cleansing oil, moist lotion, repair oil and moisture cream, all featuring the signature ingredient, the Gettou herb, known for its high antioxidant properties.