President Cyril Ramaphosa has brought in a member of the opposition, Patricia de Lille, to head the ministry of public works. The president announced his executive on Wednesday evening, reducing the size of cabinet from 36 to 28 ministers. Ramaphosa’s executive had few surprises as he got rid of all those implicated in state capture while bringing in young blood. "In appointing a new national executive, I have taken a number of considerations into account, including experience, continuity, competence, generational mix and demographic and regional diversity,” he said. Ramaphosa said that those who were appointed must realise that the expectations of the South African people had never been greater and that they would shoulder a great responsibility. “Their performance – individually and collectively – will be closely monitored against specific outcomes. Where implementation is unsatisfactory, action will be taken,” he said. Newcomers include Senzo Mchunu at the department of public service and administration, Ronald Lamola as justice minister and Jackson Mthembu will now serve as minister in the presidency. Former Gauteng finance MEC Barbara Creecy is the new minister of environment, forestry and fisheries. The new department of agriculture and land reform will be headed by Thoko Didiza. Minister of cooperative governance and traditional affairs is Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. The new health minister is Zweli Mkhize, while Aaron Motsoaledi has become home affairs minister. The minister of state security is Ayanda Dlodlo, with her deputy being Zizi Kodwa. The minister of tourism is Nkhensani Kubayi-Ngubane, while Ebrahim Patel will head the new department of economic development, trade and industry. Fikile Mbalula is the new transport minister. Tito Mboweni remains finance minister, Angie Motshekga stays in education, while Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula stays on as defence minister. Blade Nzimande remains as higher education minister, with Buti Manamela as his deputy. Bheki Cele will continue in his police portfolio, with Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams continuing as minister of communication. Here is the full list: