It's official: Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have welcomed their first child into the world — and it's a boy! The Duke and Duchess of Sussex announced the happy news on their official Instagram account. The baby was born in the early morning weighing in at nearly 3.3kg. Apparently morther and child are "both healthy and well". The couple confirmed that they wanted to keep the details around the birth of their first child "private" earlier this month, so we're not sure when we'll get the chance to feast our eyes on a photo of their bundle of joy, or find out what they've named him. While we wait in eager anticipation, here are some things we DO know about Britain's newest royal: In 1917, King George V decreed that only the Prince of Wales's oldest son would be given the title His Royal Highness (HRH) and be able to call himself a prince. That's why Prince William's first born son, Prince George, automatically qualified. That said, in 2012, Queen Elizabeth issued her own decree granting the title of prince or princess to all of Prince William's children. She would have to do the same in order for Prince Harry's newborn to be a prince. Even if the Queen doesn't, however, the royal baby will still have a posh title: he will be known as Lord Mountbatten-Windsor simply because his parents are a Duke and Duchess. Because the baby is a boy, he could also inherit his father's other title, Earl of Dumbarton. Here's the pecking order: Members of the royal family seldom use their surname, Mountbatten-Windsor, as most nobles are known by their lengthy formal titles or, if applicable, Prince or Princess (think Prince Harry and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex). That said, according to Harper’s Bazaar, the Queen's children and grandchildren tend to use surnames that reflect their father's titles in everyday life. Prince Harry, for instance, went by Harry Wales in the army, because his father is the Prince of Wales. Similarly Prince William's children use the surname Cambridge at school as their dad is the Duke of Cambridge. It's likely that the royal baby will follow suit, using the surname Sussex. It's tradition that Queen Elizabeth is the first person who is told when a royal baby is born and, apparently, she even has the power to veto the child's name if she doesn't approve of the parent's choice. Royal expert Richard Fitzwilliams told the Express that it's unlikely she'll do so in the case of the name Prince Harry and Meghan's baby, however. In the run-up to Meghan's due date, people had been betting on everything to do with the royal baby from its gender to its name. According to the Evening Standard, the top five boys' names punters have picked are Albert, Philip, Arthur, James, and Alexander.