TS Galaxy player Thembinkosi Mbamba has died in a car accident. Galaxy‚ after celebrating an historic 1-0 victory against Kaizer Chiefs last Saturday in the Nedbank Cup final‚ were left mourning this Saturday morning at the tragic news. The 11-month-old team from Mpumalanga‚ owned by former agent Tim Sukazi‚ had become the first NFD team to win the Nedbank Cup with their 1-0 victory against Chiefs. Mbamba had started on the wing for Galaxy in the Nedbank Cup final‚ but been substituted off by coach Dan Malesela before the break. The 23-year-old joins a long line of professional footballers to have lost their lives from car accidents. Details of Mbamba's accident‚ which apparently occurred on Friday night‚ are still not available. Galaxy Tweeted: "A sad morning for the TS Galaxy family as we woke up to the sad news of Thembinkosi Mbamba's passing. Last week we were celebrating with him‚ today we mourn him. "Our sincere condolences to his family during this difficult period. Sleep well young Rocket." Mbamba had made nine appearances for Galaxy in their First Division campaign in the past season‚ eight starting and one as a substitute‚ scoring one goal. Galaxy later on Saturday sent out a press release stating: "It is with great sorrow that we inform you of the sad passing of TS Galaxy FC player, Thembinkosi Mbamba, aged 23 years old. "Fondly nicknamed 'Bashin' by his teammates, Mbamba was involved in a fatal car accident in the early hours of Saturday morning. "The Duduza-based winger joined TS Galaxy FC at the beginning of the 2018-19 season from African All Stars. He made 12 appearances for the Club in all competitions this season, scoring a goal in a league match against Real Kings. The goal went on to win 'Goal of the week' on the NFD Show. "He played his last match on 18 May 2019 in the Nedbank Cup Final." The press release quoted Sukazi as saying: “We at TS Galaxy Football Club are deeply saddened by the passing of this rising star. Thembinkosi had a bright future ahead of him, and the football fraternity at large has lost one of the most promising youngsters. "We wish to take this opportunity to thank everyone for the messages of condolence received by the club.  On behalf of the club, its management, players and its supporters, I would like convey our commiserations to the Mbamba family. Aluhlanga olungehlanga, it is God’s will.”