Orlando Pirates fans had something to celebrate after Thembinkosi Lorch walked away with the PSL Footballer of the Season and Absa Premiership Player’s Player of the Season gongs at the traditional  end of the season Premier Soccer League awards  in Durban on Sunday night. The accolades will have helped soothe the disappointment of coming close to winning the league title only to see it snatched away by Mamelodi Sundowns on the final day of the season a few days ago. It was one of the closest league title races in years and  even though the Bucs finished runners-up to coach Pitso Mosimane's swashbuckling Brazilians,  Lorch’s contribution to the Pirates cause was enough to see him pip Sundowns rivals Hlompho Kekana and Themba Zwane to the Footballer of Season award. The Footballer of the Season accolade  is voted exclusively by the 16 coaches in the Absa Premiership while the Player’s Player is voted by players (players are not allowed to vote for their teammates). Lorch, Kekana and Zwane also squared off in the Absa Premiership Player’s Player of the Season and Midfielder of the season categories. While Lorch won the two above awards, Kekana took home the Midfielder of the season accolade. There were no surprises when the Absa  premiership coach of the season award went to irrepressible Sundowns mentor Mosimane. Mosimane won the award for the second year in a row after leading the Brazilians to  a successive  Absa Premiership title. Vincent Pule’s goal against Polokwane City on the last day of the season was voted by the public as the Absa-lutely Awesome Goal of the Season. Cape Town City  keeper Peter Leeuwenburgh was voted as the MTN8 Last Man Stadium. On a good night for the goalkeepers, Baroka keeper  Elvis Chipezeze took home the Telkom Knockout Player of the Tournament. In the Nedbank Cup, champions TS Galaxy were the big winners in both categories. A day after putting Kaizer Chiefs to the sword and scoring the winning goal in the Nedbank Cup final, Zakhele Lepasa deservedly walked away with Nedbank Cup Player of the Tournament. His teammate Terrence Mashego won Nedbank Cup's Most Promising Player of the Tournament. SuperSport United’s Teboho Mokoena won the Absa Premiership Young Player of the Season award. Thembinkosi Lorch (Orlando Pirates) Thembinkosi Lorch (Orlando Pirates) Pitso Mosimane (Mamelodi Sundowns) Teboho Mokoena (SuperSport United) Ronwen Williams (SuperSport United) Ricardo Nascimento (Mamelodi Sundowns) Hlompho Kekana (Mamelodi Sundowns) Vincent Pule (Orlando Pirates) Peter Leeuwenburgh (Cape Town City) Elvis Chipezeze (Baroka FC) Terrence Mashego (TS Galaxy) Zakhele Lepasa (TS Galaxy) Sipho Chaine (Bloemfontein Celtic) Siboniso Conco (Lamontville Golden Arrows) Abongile Tom Emmanuel De Sani