Reality shows are the ultimate guilty pleasure - and just like a delicious treat, they’re addictive. Whether your dream is to sing, to dazzle J’Something with your cooking or to outplay and outlast on a far-flung shore, you can live vicariously through these awesome shows - all of which are now available to devour on Showmax. 1. Survivor SA (season 6) With season 7 having just started on M-Net, this is your chance to binge a full season of Survivor SA in between episodes. The winner of this season was one of the most controversial ever. There's no way you'll be able to predict who’ll be the one to outwit, outplay and outlast! Watch it now. 2. My Kitchen Rules SA (seasons 1 and 2) Join local singing and cooking sensation J’Something and award-winning chef David Higgs for the South African version of this addictive cooking show, where foodie duos invite the chefs and their competitors into their kitchens. Watch it now. 3. The Voice SA (season 2) Local music heavyweights Kahn Morbee, Karen Zoid, Lira and Bobby van Jaarsveld take their seats in the swivelling red chairs to find the country's next singing sensation. Season 3 is on M-Net at the moment, but if you can't wait until Sunday for the next episode, you can always binge-watch the whole of last season on Showmax. Watch it now. 4. The Real Housewives of Johannesburg (season 1) We’ve seen what the Real Housewives of Atlanta and New York get up to; now it’s time to take a peek inside the opulent lives of Johannesburg’s richest women. Watch it now. 5. The Bachelor SA (season 1) The first-ever South African Bachelor was fitness model and entrepreneur Lee Thompson. Through a series of heart-stopping rose ceremonies, he whittles down the group of 24 gorgeous women - with plenty of drama along the way! Watch it now. 6. Being Bonang (seasons 1 and 2) Fabulous, feisty and fierce, Bonang Matheba gives us an inside look into her life as a maverick entrepreneur and media personality. Meet the real Bonang - the good and the bad! Watch it now. This article was paid for by Showmax.