"Fellow South Africans, In the election of the 8th of May, South Africans provided this administration with a clear mandate to accelerate inclusive economic growth, act with greater urgency to tackle poverty, improve government services, fight corruption and end state capture. If we are to give effect to this mandate, we need a capable, efficient and ethical government. Today, we are announcing some of the outcomes of the reconfiguration of national government. As I indicated in the State of the Nation Address in February 2018: It is critical that the structure and size of the state is optimally suited to meet the needs of the people and ensure the most efficient allocation of public resources.” In undertaking this review, we have been guided by the need to build a modern developmental state that has the means to drive economic and social transformation, to embrace innovation and to direct effort and resources towards where they will have the greatest impact. All South Africans are acutely aware of the great economic difficulties our country has been experiencing and the constraints this has placed on public finances. It is therefore imperative that in all areas and spheres of government, we place priority on revitalising our economy while exercising the greatest care in the use of public funds. To promote greater coherence, better coordination and improved efficiency, we have combined a number of portfolios, thereby reducing the number of Ministers from 36 to 28. We had already combined the portfolios of Communications and Telecommunications and Postal Services. We have also decided to add responsibility for infrastructure to the Public Works portfolio and to add responsibility for employment to the Labour portfolio. If we are to make effective progress in building the South Africa that we all want, it is important that we deploy into positions of responsibility people who are committed, capable and hard-working, and who have integrity. In appointing a new national executive, I have taken a number of considerations into account, including experience, continuity, competence, generational mix and demographic and regional diversity. The people who I am appointing today must realise that the expectations of the South African people have never been greater and that they will shoulder a great responsibility. Their performance – individually and collectively – will be closely monitored against specific outcomes. Where implementation is unsatisfactory, action will be taken. I have decided to make the following appointments to the National Executive: These men and women we have appointed to the executive are drawn from all corners of our country. For the first time in the history of our country, half of all Ministers are women. We have also included a significant number of young people. This is in fulfillment of our commitment to giving young people roles of responsibility in all sectors of society. This is part of a generational transition in which we are creating a pipeline of leaders to take our country further into the future. In conclusion, I wish to express my appreciation to all those outgoing members of the Executive who served the country so ably in the Fifth Administration. We continue to value their experience, skills and contribution, and will give them suitable responsibilities where they will be able to serve the nation. Allow me to express my gratitude to all the members of the incoming Executive for making themselves available to serve the nation, and I wish them all the best in the execution of their responsibilities. We have all been called upon to serve the people of this country, and we will do so to the utmost of our ability. I thank you."