Queer is the new cool. Whether in the form of slang, dress code or on television, there's been a definite shift in terms of what underground culture and the mainstream thinks is "dope". In South Africa, the most entertaining way in which we're seeing this crossover of the underground into the mainstream is Vogue Nights and the burgeoning ball scene — such as the monthly Le Grand Balls held at the Ellis Park Tennis Club. For the uninitiated, balls are essentially pageants in which members from across the spectrum of the LGBTQ+ compete, runway style, in a myriad categories of self-expression. Over the past few years, a number of events like this have been setting Johannesburg's nightlife scene aflame by combining radical self-expression, amazing music and the most eclectic group of people you're likely to meet on a dance floor. It is concentrated fun but before you buy your ticket to the next Vogue Nights or Le Grand Ball bear the following in mind, especially if you're straight and heteronormative: You don't need to do a university thesis but you do need to be aware of certain things. For instance, if you don't know what cisgendered means then find out. Definitely watch the Netflix series Pose and the classic Paris Is Burning documentary, which traces the ball culture's development in 1980s New York. Aside from being brilliant pieces of television, they'll both give you a good idea of what you're getting into. This should go without saying, but if you're a man and deal badly with being hit on by other men, stay home instead. If you cleave to the idea that certain clothes are for "men" and others are for "women" then this event isn't for you. Remember, it's a party, have fun and mind your own business. If you do, you may learn some things while having the time of your life. Cisgendered people generally have the run of spaces where they can express themselves freely. Balls are places where queerness gets to take centre stage. That means this isn't the place to be the main ou. Think of it like attending a wedding of someone from another culture: you're a guest, so behave like one. You can wear a T-shirt and jeans anywhere. Balls are your chance to unleash your inner flair without being judged (if you're not walking). So go for it. Wear those assless chaps you've been saving, come dressed as a fireman or a sexy Jacob Zuma (obviously no blackface). Watching people walk in different categories, getting their scores from the judges and the crowd's reaction is a genuinely spectacular experience. Balls are incredibly visual affairs and you'll likely see things you've never seen before. The music will be great and so will the company. There is zero pretension at balls so they're already more fun than 7/10 of Johannesburg's "trendy" parties. So take it all in, relax and have ball. Le Grand Ball presents The Fetish Ball on Friday, October 25 at the Ellis Park Tennis Club. The ball will feature Johannesburg's most flamboyant and exceptional personalities going toe to toe in a runway "walk off" designed to highlight the wealth of creative juice that flows through the city and through the LGBTQ+ communities. After the runway segment, the public and participating houses are invited onto the dance floor to show off their death-defying vogue combos. The dress code is Gag Worthy and tickets are R100 a pop at quicket.co.za