In this day and age, women need clothes that don't only look good but make them feel good. Enter softly cinched waists and knee-to-shin grazing skirts with an A-line or pencil silhouette - generally easy to wear, flattering pieces that strike the balance between feminine and powerful. Soft, flowing fabrication, romantic ruffles and embellishments are just the cherry on top. We all miss Phoebe Philo at Celine, but at least the minimalist trend continues in her absence. Less will always be more - even the maximalist king, Alessandro Michele, toyed with a more pared-down Gucci this season, with less logomania and more wearable, less showy, separates. Now is as good a time as any to take clean lines, considered design and understated colour in your stride. It's timeless. Forget tonal dressing. Pick one colour this season and stick to it - from top to bottom, shoes included. Whether you're inclined towards pastels or more saturated, bold colours, it's time to dip yourself in singular hues from head to toe. Take a hint from Max Mara - the addition of hats, handbags and knee-high socks in the same colour is not necessarily OTT, it's a must-try, next-level sartorial statement. Draping is kind of like pleating, it's a classic way to add texture to any outfit. Come Spring 2020, Grecian goddess-inspired, draped detailing will take centre stage as seen on the tops and dresses at Sies Marjan, Proenza Schouler and Marta Jakubowski. If the fabrication and fall is right, you won't need much else. Metallics will never lose their allure, but SS20's take is less about showy disco sequins and iridescent lame and more about sleek, silver-woven fabrication that has a matte finish. JW Anderson and Brandon Maxwell make a case for understated, wearable metallics that are easier to pull off in your everyday wardrobe. Show some shoulder - one to be exact, by opting for an asymmetrical-sleeved top. This spring's unexpected and playful sleeve twist strikes the perfect balance with the drama of a slightly voluminous, full-length sleeve on one side and a seductive bare shoulder on the other. Who says you can't do both at the same time? It doesn't matter what the season, a good ol' check never gets old. Gingham is the check of the moment and is no longer just on suits and definitely not just in black and white either. Go full gingham as seen at Emilia Wickstead, or try your hand at colourful gingham in separate pieces that you can mix and match a la Michael Kors. Keep it fresh in lively shades of orange on long summer days. Take your pick of the lot with a broad spectrum of tangerine shades that all pack a punch. Try soft peachy orange as seen at Alberta Ferretti, or play with the more neon variety shown at Gucci and MSGM. It's safe to say orange is the new red for SS20. Channel the '80s with some powerful shoulders. The oversized jacket is back and it's brought the shoulder pads with it. Whether you go for a big rounded shoulder like at Proenza Schouler, or an audacious, sharp-angled frame like at Balenciaga, attention-grabbing shoulders are the way to go. Menswear tailoring has been getting softer over the seasons and womenswear is following suit. Nothing is slim fit and perfectly structured anymore - everything is less fussy and more nonchalant. Silhouettes are more languid and relaxed in how they sit on the body - blazers have got slightly bigger and fit with subtle slouch, and trousers err on the side of baggy, but not too loose. Safari khaki has never looked this good. From Dolce & Gabbana's belted, multi-pocketed pieces to Alberta Ferretti's outdoorsy outfits in nature-inspired hues and the feminine silk jumpsuit from Elie Saab, nature is calling and this trend is perfect for the urban jungle and the bush alike.