Videos allegedly showing former Bishops teacher and water polo coach Fiona Viotti scantily clad in bed have been removed from a popular free porn streaming site. The two videos, initially posted by a user called "JannieVannie", were pulled from the site by Thursday afternoon. It is not clear whether the account holder removed the video or if it was removed by the website, but the terms and conditions of the website explicitly say that the publishers of videos should own the content. However, while the videos on the "JannieVannie" account are gone, another user - "21ndOver", whose account claims to originate from Arizona in the United States - has published the same two videos, along with a new video and a photo. Viotti's name is mentioned in the titles of all the explicit posts. The three new posts had 7,000 views in the 24 hours since they were posted. Another user, under the account name "Skeeter the great" and who claims to be an 18-year-old male from South Africa, also uploaded two of the videos. The video is one of several lewd pieces of material that have been circulating on WhatsApp groups since allegations that the teacher was having a sexual relationship with one of the boys at the school emerged last week. It has been viewed over 20,000 times already after being uploaded by "JannieVannie". Viotti's lawyer, William Booth, last week warned that sharing such videos without the person's explicit consent was illegal. "You can't just publish videos if the person who is the subject matter of the videos has not given permission for that to be published because that is a serious invasion of the person's rights in terms of our constitution," he told the Sunday Times. The school is proceeding with a widespread investigation that is understood to involve  interviewing more than 40 pupils. On Thursday, the chairperson for parliament's portfolio committee on women, youth and persons with disabilities, Nonhlanhla Ncube-Ndaba, commended "the courage" of the person involved in the original complaint against the teacher" and many other boys who have stepped forward and said "not in my name, me too". Ncube-Ndaba said: "It is disconcerting that spaces intended to be safe for children to learn and thrive, are nodes in which gender-based violence is perpetrated. "Whilst the committee respects the processes under way to deal with the matter, the committee urges the department of basic education to revisit its policies in schools – as all children have a right to be safe, including the boy child," the statement read. The committee believes attention should be given to  whether the current provisions that are in place within schools are adequate to deal with: