Mmusi Maimane's fall from grace this week has elicited a torrent of obituaries for the DA, the party he led from May 2015. Taken with the return of Helen Zille, the obituaries mourned (or revelled?) in the demise of SA's "liberal, nonracial" alternative to the ANC. When Maimane delivered his "broken man" speech directed at former president Jacob Zuma it seemed to signal that the long-awaited "normalisation" and deracialisation of politics in SA had finally arrived. His obvious passion and deep conviction struck a chord among South Africans, and even his opponents had to grant that the former Dobsonville, Soweto, preacher had the right stuff. So far, so good. But there was a contradiction lurking behind the hoopla of nonracialism: while Maimane became a mascot for decency in politics, and nonracialism in practice, he is a black man in what has historically been a "white" party. When he played to the public gallery, his nonracial garb was a perfect fit. Within the DA, however, it often seemed as though the nonracialism served as a fig leaf to cover inbred racism, which left Maimane exposed as a black man who seemed prepared to look the other way while some white party members only paid lip service to the ideal of nonracialism. The first such incident occurred when prominent DA MP Dianne Kohler Barnard commented favourably on the PW Botha era. Maimane attempted to take a hard line on the matter - for which Kohler Barnard was later cleared by the Equality Court - but his stance angered some of the DA old guard. That was nothing, though, compared with the storm unleashed by Zille's "colonialism" tweets in August last year, which again put Maimane in the difficult position of going up against the woman who was once his most enthusiastic backer. Maimane had attempted, quite early in his tenure, to attune the "nonracial" DA to the reality of a racialised society in which wealth and privilege are aligned with race. His stance unsettled the DA old guard. The rich symbolism of three white men - among them former DA leader Tony Leon - producing a report critical of the party's black leader has not been lost on critics. Strangely enough, though, it was Maimane's questions to President Cyril Ramaphosa on a R500,000 Bosasa donation to his CR17 campaign that may have been the final nail. Here was the leader of the opposition dragging down SA's last credible hope, even if he was ANC. Both Leon and Zille were critical, and DA funders, who no doubt hedge their bets with donations to the ANC too, must have been aghast. Which brings us to the present, characterised by hysterical wailing and gnashing of teeth as to the future of the DA. With Maimane and Joburg's maverick mayor Herman Mashaba out of the way, and with Zille back in the saddle, commentators are outdoing each other with predictions of the DA's demise. It's true that the DA's history with black leaders has not been a happy one. Witness the fate of Lindiwe Mazibuko, formerly DA leader in parliament. Maimane says the DA is not the vehicle to transform SA, and he may be right. On the other hand, there is something to be said for a true opposition party holding the ANC to account at all possible forums and opportunities. Maimane was mocked for his policy of so-called "ANC Lite", but it's clear that stance is the only one that can set the DA up for a push to power to replace the ANC. Beyond the leadership, though, there are men and women of all colours in the DA working to attain that nonracial and prosperous future we all want. If they, too, come to see the DA as a smokescreen for white privilege, they will exit the party as Maimane did. His detractors argue that Maimane was not in any event the right leader for the party, with many calling him indecisive and weak. Perhaps so, but he has done his duty and, if his heart is in the right place, as many believe, there will still be a place for him in our politics. And the DA will live to fight another day.